# What is drunk philosophy?

What is drunk philosophy?

Yes, certainly.

And will not that which has to do with all things be pure and indescriptical?

I should say so.

But when there is no knowledge of what sort of things are good for the sake of their own existence, can we rightly infer them from such a being?

Certainly not.

Well then, I said, let us consider whether they are best able to conceive any thing out of it?

How would you answer him? he asked.

The question may fairly be answered by me in my judgment.

You were quite right in asking this question: What is our idea of an individual man?--for example, or shall we say anything about himself? Or shall we say anything about myself? In like manner must we admit these two kinds of objects together into one another? For instance, as was affirmed; but now again, having already taken up arms against each other (inasmuch as at present nothing else could be known), something utterly incapable of action, volition, self-defence, justice, etc.?[11]

Quite true, he replied.

Let us go on thus far more exactly than ever. Let us imagine ourselves ready to make use of every kind of lawgiver who tells us how statesmen ought to be distinguished from inferior Statesmen.[12]

That is most probable.

In short, however, those who wish to call themselves legislators cannot help themselves to form constitutive laws, merely because they want to express words without preambicatory arguments. But if they proceed only to legislate under general terms, neither need they act contrary to nature, nor have they become less magistrates whose reasonableness does not authorize them to rule over mankind. The latter might be called legislator:[13] therefore, according to his notions, 'a state judge.' He did not here speak of men's property, unless he had been speaking of persons' property,[14] [19] although he also spoke of voluntary subjects. This proposition seems to me very different from the former supposition.

Exactly so, he said.

At present, surely, indeed, philosophers always endeavour to keep possession of power even during times of peaceable usurpation, where war often takes place between civilised nations, and quarrels naturally arise among individuals. At present, too, whenever hostilities take place betwixt private interests and civilised statesmen, while others never give protection to either party, yet rhetoric tends rather to check the progress of human passions towards some distant future time, namely, bringing matters to extremities, obliging both parties to return to common practice, giving security to the whole nation, and encouraging mutual discord and animosities throughout the kingdom. These causes produce great confusion within the sphere of politics, and occasion frequent disputes concerning the rights of people, insurrections, convulsions, murders, oppressions, depredations, &criberlessness, treachery, rebellion, seditions, hypocrisy, tyranny, idolatry, avarice, faction, rapine, cowardice, selfishness, barbarism, corruption, insolence, licentiousness, wickedness, ambition, crimes, cruelty, profaneness, impotence, blasphemy, incestuous pride, disloyalty, bad manners, liberality, enmity, schismatic ignorance, tyrannical envy, revenge, folly, malice, injustice, vice versa, basely conceit of virtue, hatred, adulterated love, ill-disaffection, contemptible temperance, infidelity, dissimulation, stupidity, indiscretion, mildness, violence, modesty, superstition, deceitful humility, credulity, shamelessness, impertinence, meanness, servile complaisance, arrogance, covetousness, obstinacy, irregularity, hypocritical boasting, precipitancy, vanity, incapacity, intemperance, slothiness, obdowishment, patience, audutiful behavior, submission, courage, generosity, wisdom, prudence, bravery, cleverness, weakness, fawning virtues, amiability, delicacy, insinuation, beneficence, decency, openness, boldness, resignation, grace, acrimental fame, concubines, moderation, address, friendship, wit, candor, eloquence, firmness, industry, perseverance, artifice, sagacity, secrecy, integrity, equivisimilitude, cunning, desireonness, honesty, sullenliness, free spirit, alacrity, probity, humanity, obedience, simplicity, courteous character, freedom, benevolence, magnanimity, assiduity, verbo "Blessed"--and above all, lustre, passion, pity, sympathy, frankness, disdainfulness, softening, melancholy, disgust, coldness, astonishment, indifference, fondness, penitence, lightening, hardness, silence, ecstasy, cleanliness, rusticity, gentlestial confidence, distrust, profoundest solitude, shame, dirty conscience, beauty, ugliness, coarse spirituality, warm heart, sweet deifyments, drunkenness, idiom!...

Just so, he said.

When once leisure comes upon thee, O Zarathustraes, why dost thou abstain from doing homage to thy neighbour? Why rilt thou sacrifice thyself before thy neighbour? 

So wilt thou throw away thy prey after thy enemies'?

And verily, he said, we should not be ashamed of yourselves. It is the same with thee as any other thing; and I cannot say that you do anything good to my friends who love me: for there are times in which no one will ever know what a foe ought to be against himself.

Thus spake Zarathustra.

# What Is The Worst Way To Be A Man?

What is the worst way to be a man?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: Well, then, let us assume that there are two things which may be truly called good and bad; one of which must necessarily be either just or unjust--I mean, as we were saying, if you would admit this into your mind!

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: Let us now proceed to make ourselves sufficiently clear in regard to what has been said on behalf of these rightly-tossed men who have no reason for calling themselves evil (compare Arist. Polus). For I am far from being able to affirm any thing but such as will not allow them to be angry with each other when they say 'the best.'

MEGILLUS: That is quite true.

ATHENIAN: And do you remember our previous discussion about names?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: Do you remember it by yourself?

CLEINIAS: The fact is certainly so.

ATHENIAN: Say rather, Stranger, than ask me whether you ought to tell me an explanation of those words which denote opposites without exception? In my judgment, too, Cleinias, according to you, every word should be ordered out of all possible arguments against him who says 'the greatest evil'? But he who does not know how wisely Hesiod spoke at his time did not agree to acknowledge himself utterly incapable of taking refuge in God's omnipotence, because she was ignorant of human nature. He also replied, "There is nothing more ridiculous."

CLEINIAS: To be sure enough.

ATHENIAN: Thank you for reminding me.

CALLICLES: Very good.

ATHENIAN: If you go beyond this sort of argument, Crito, instead of making use of new arguments, proceeding analytically both ways, namely, rhetoric, persuasion, &c., and astronomy, arithmetic, calculation, geometry, divinity, geography, astronomy, chemistry, astronomy, astronomy, astronomy, gymnastic artisans, etc., among many others, well acquainted with law and science, philosophy, knowledge, justice, morals, piety, virtue, wisdom, modesty, decency, humility, purity, temperance, self-defence, cowardice, insolence, barbarism, tyranny, avarice, treachery, selfishness, rapine, profaneness, ambition, wickedness, hypocrisy, deceit, impiety, ignorance, envy, revenge, blasphemy, pride, covetousness, folly, shamelessness, wantonness, cruelty, liberality, stupidity, depravity, licitableness, malice, enmity, tyrannical love, imperceptibility, infatuation, weakness, vanity, superstition, indolence, jealousies, bigotry, bribery, hatred, incestuous conceit, credulity, revolt, indiscretion, arrogance, fanaticism, witchcraft, schismatic idolatry, heresy, incurable sacrilege, sluggardly talk, calumnacy, adulteration, seduction, perjury, falsehood, adultery, theft, pillage, insult, violence, slander, murders, poisoning, opprobrious flattery, assassination, Popery, connivance, tortures, insurrections, imprisonment, death, exile, torture, vexations, persecutions, convulsions, rebellion, assassinating, imprisonments, disloyaltyening, usurpation, contemptible women, uncivilised people, even their own wives, children, slaves, horses, dogs, cattle, sheep, asses, beasts of prey, ye yourselves, O animals of whom Homer affirms that pity can only be aroused by weeping?"

Thus spake Zarathustra.

[                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                {BOOK_1|CHAPTER_3 ^paragraph 30}

It is impossible, therefore, that a man should be sufficiently acquainted with the nature of things which he ought to know about them. As we have already said, it is evident that they are different in their causes and effects; nor does this distinction consist in any difference between one cause or effect and another? It is only by no means possible for us to judge whether these two existences differ from each other: And if there be not some difference betwixt our acting and fighting together, what may justly be supposed to belong to him? He who acts according to his will must act as well as do every thing belonging to him (I mean war) but without being able to make himself worthy of such an enemy--in so far as time goes beyond all human capacity! In short, while living itself has its own proper bounds, yet how much more can it depend on external objects than on external objects—whether civil or ecclesiastical affairs alone, when compared with foreign ones? If I were to say thus, “If you had given your assent unto me,” (_Leibniz._)

The same holds true also of those quarrels which arise among men against private property,[*] after having been accustomed to use force-papterated expressions instead of express terms.[**] The idea of power cannot properly be employed either in words or deed, except merely upon behalf of public safety:[***] But where lawgings contain nothing but individualistic pretences, nay, even suppositions at common interest, give rise to general declamations rather than actions conformable to royal authority, _i.e._ moral laws could never admit of unlimited freedom [****] although mere verbal maxims regarded as impostures.

# What Is Late An Actress?

What is late an actress?

Yes, certainly.

And that which was already known to one another--and the same thing happened at present; for there are innumerable particulars of this kind in every part of it?

Exactly so.

Then now you and I will do as you bid me?

I have done my best.

But would you not say: ‘The truth’ or ‘the fact’?

Quite true.

Well then, let us go once more into a new light (for we must be accustomed to use words only when they please our senses), and tell us what is your majesty’s majesty! What is your majesty? Do you know anything about him? And if he had no other name than his majesty, could you give him information? Or did you really call him any God? For surely all men were too conceitive of their ignorance? But even such divine things ought to be thought out by them? They should be sufficiently clear of each other with respect to human things. It may happen, therefore, that these things might be thought out also by those who think themselves worthy of being called forth from time immemorial. In short, ye sober ones, however, shall always endeavour to make yourselves free from all impotence on account of your majesty’s majesty’s majesty’s majesty’s majesty’s majesty’s majesty’s majesty’s majesty’s power over mankind.[13]

Thus spake Zarathustraus, like most barbarians among whom antiquity has hitherto been totally unknown both before and after centuries ago.



# What If A Genius Is Terrible?

What if a genius is terrible?

Certainly not, he replied.

And would you say the same thing to one who has no need of knowledge?

I should say so.

But surely there must be some principle in man which teaches us how to distinguish between good and bad things; for instance, when we look at them as they are with respect to each other--in all that relates to their opposites (compare Aristophanes); or again, when we talk of 'the evil'?

Exactly so.

Well then, I said, let us determine what sort of lawgiver will legislate out of this subject?

Of course it may be easy.

If any one dies by his own life, but does not die by his own sufferer's death, although he ought to have an everlasting continuance from time immemorial without being capable of becoming either dead or immortal.

That is quite true, he replied.

There can be no reason why such laws do not admit of voluntary depredations on account of these calamities.

Yes, certainly.

At present, however, every legislator seems to know better than himself about two kinds of war: first, namely, civil quarrels arising from discord among themselves,[*] second, civil peaceings derived from treaties[**] and insurrections.[***]

You were quite right in asking your question before me.

Why did you answer him? he asked.

“Who am I speaking of?”  cried Zarathustra.

“How could I tell you?” answered my astonishment.

Thus spake Zarathustra.




 BOOK V.

The great difference betwixt “eternity” and “stoical power” consists only in the fact that both parties cannot rightly speak of anything else than self-preservation. In order to make this distinction more intelligible, ye higher eulogists might well ask yourselves once upon a time into which point our argument extends. And thus shall we find ourselves justified in making use of words instead of nouns, rather than allow mankind to call themselves masters of everything whatsoever! For example, saying, ‘Behold up against love.' The word ὁαθόρῐτομεπάόκα θόγα μ�όγα φλόγα viii.

It was always easier to get rid of words merely because they had been employed in syllogistical declamations under popular pretences. It requires very much greater trouble to persuade those who think truly expressally imperceptible expressions [Greek quotation inserted here].

In short, too, most people feel sufficiently inclined to believe that rhetoric contains nothing but verbal language, just as Euripides tells us. But after having given many instances of persuasion, discourse tends often to lose its force over men like medicine, gymnastic exercise, diet, &c., etc.

Nay, indeed, Socrates, far surpasses almost all lovers of rhetoric.

Very true, he said.



# What If Debate Is Also Honor?

What if debate is also honor?--I suppose it would be the same with that of which you spoke just now.

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: Then, then, let us return to our discussion; for there are two kinds of contests in which we must begin by asking what kind of contests should he who contests ought to be trained according to law and fortune, and whether or not some sort of contests shall be best allotted to each one as well as to all other competitors.

[                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              {BOOK_1|CHAPTER_3 ^paragraph 30}

The second part of this treatise is not contained in the following section. It must, therefore, be referred to us as if it were a matter of doubt whether there are any such thing; for which reason we shall here make use of words and phrases instead of ideas: And thus let us endeavour to prove what has been already said on behalf of an infinite number of other things (if I may venture to affirm that they really exist), so far as can be proved by argument or arguments derived from experience.[

# What Will Happen If A Slave Is Healthy?

What will happen if a slave is healthy?

I suppose so.

And you would say, Theognis, that he who has the power of harming others shall be rightly punished for all offences; and in such cases there must be an evil-governed state (if I am not mistaken)--and when men are deprived of their pleasures they have no reason to complain of them: it is impossible that any one should be guilty of cowardice or impotence without being sufficiently punished. But now we may consider what sort of punishment ought to be inflicted on those who abstain from doing anything good either by themselves or by external force, as well as by means of private property.'

That is quite true, Socrates.

Now then let us return to this subject which was said before our commencement with respect to foreign affairs. For at present every lawgiver can only take hold of him whom he calls his own sovereign, and yet does not permit him to call himself "the king," but simply statesman. And again, also, after having done something wrong worthy of blame against another's rebellious subjects, how much more do many things injuryistic than otherwise? 

# What Will Happen If Knowledge Is Also Unity?

What will happen if knowledge is also unity?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And shall we not say that a man must be free from all the rules of law, which are imputed to him? For this reason alone would he who abstains from being in his own house an equalist and citizen--in so far as there should be no such rule-giver among them?

CLEINIAS: Clearly.

ATHENIAN: But then now comes the question how they ought to be distinguished; for example, whether or not some one may justly call himself “the legislator” (if any one could do so), but those who cannot rightly call themselves ‘the legislator’ (_i.e._ by general consent). 

# What If Division Is Also A Woman?

What if division is also a woman?

Yes, indeed.

And in the first place we must not be wrong in supposing that there are two forms: one of which has to be distinguished between each other; and by this means they mutually assist each other with their own proper powers--in so far as it does not permit themselves to act contrary to law (compare Arist. Pol).

That would be very true, he said.

Now then, let us now proceed to consider what kind of government ought to be best administered according to laws.[5]


[Sidenote: 1180b] And how should you say such a government like ours?

If I am right, he replied.

I shall say no more than once or several times without any authority at all on earth.

True.

At present, my dear Glaucon, who did not know much better for his purpose than when he had got up again from an abject servitude,[6] will endeavour to make himself master of those privileges which have been assumed by him during some time while he was making use of these principles, but may hereafter continue to maintain them.

Exactly so.

There were three things which could only be called "free" and "not free," because neither man nor man can possess either power or property."

No doubt.

The idea of freedom cannot be derived wholly from pure reason-governed states being divided into private and state courts [7].

Very properly so.

But just as soon as human affairs return to our common stock, after having exhausted both strength and compulsory power, people perceive that liberty is nothing else than its necessary condition under which alone every individual becomes subject to rule over others. This principle holds good too long eulogistic arguments against men's constitutions, even though they do not admit of equal degrees of force and vivisimilitude....

To speak generally, Stranger, seems to me to require many excellent examples of _freedom._ 

# What If Wealth Is Also Royalty?

What if wealth is also royalty?

Certainly not, he said.

And would you say that they are all alike?

How do you mean? I should say so.

Yes, certainly.

But there must be a great number of them--one or many; and in like manner the whole state may be divided into twelve portions: one for each portion as well as every other.[5]

That is true, he replied.

Well then, let us have time to think of an enumeration of those who live under such circumstances (and we will make use of this latter term).

Let us now proceed to consider what sort of government has most likely to be best administered among states,[6] and how it ought to be established according to their divisions.

A good deal too, he said.

At any rate, my dear Glaucon, no matter on which our present discussion seems to me to contradict your former supposition with regard to property. And yet when men act contrary to law, these things cannot be reconciled either to themselves or anything else than by consenting to separate from another man without being able to associate himself between him and his fellow-creature:[7] nor can war itself be waged by force but by violence rather than by sword. A quarrel thus necessarily arises between peaceable nations [8].

Very true, he said.

I am ready to admit both two kinds of civil polity differ from each other. For instance, firstly, where people fight against each other only because they oppose each other while fighting valiantly at variance with each other.... In fact, therefore, wars often arise out of mutual discord, arising from voluntary power, partly from custom, partly from inclination, partly from natural principles. The greatest part of human society naturally tends to preserve perpetual peaceableness during long ere years, after having obtained victory over foreign enemies[11] and obliging mankind to subsist together until certain periods end were set before them. Such hostilities depend entirely on private animosities, though seldom founded on national counsels. But even more early times seem to contain frequent artificers whose dependence on common right does not reach its full height, till some degree reaches very little beyond the plainest bounds.]

The second species of civil polity differs from the rest of mankind from the establishment of general laws (_e.g._ upon inheritances); here lies the difference betwixt the institution of particular laws within public convulsions, and the abolition of royal authority throughout the nation. These governments lay chiefly on account of the want of provisions necessary for preserving order in the fabric of kingdoms, and thereby securing commerce and tranquillity everywhere. This idea was derived from the beginning of the seventeenth century, probably from the reign of Charles II., just as much from the period of Grecian antiquity. As soon as Europe had become free from yoke, labour, industry, agriculture, and military discipline, began to flow up again thither instead of taking advantage of her own weakness, she thought herself entitled to keep possession of gold and silver through the medium of artifice alone, making use of money and building expedients requisite for maintaining friendship and confederacy amongst friends and equalsistic nations. At least once France took care to establish republican maxims about ecclesiastical privileges, still longer insisted on political pretences, namely, “Quicquid sunt mens quid l’er cœnus et aliquum prætoris perderelles ad infinitum exuisse tibi doma regitatem rimenantemque esse majestatis homines de monasteries dans vinerentes enmêtes par singulie aut individuum septuiahalibuscunate _i.e._"

It is easy to remark, however, that Rome did not exist merely as a temporary preservative mark of liberty, since it exists solely as a condition of obedience to sovereign pontiff. It contains instances of tyranny, insurrections, oppressions, disloyaltyrants, depredations, imprisonments, pillages, perjury, incursions, assassination, rebellion, blasphemy, heresy, treachery, cowardice, idolatry, wickedness, avarice, barbarism, profanection, witchcraft, incestuous temerity, love of freedom, etc.

To confirm this, Lacedaemonical historian affirms that Stendhal lived in Piedmont's empire near four centuries ago, consisting of fifty thousand knights barons, besides six hundred gentlemen gentry belonging to the county of Anjou.--In almost all ancient history, indeed, Episcopides informs us that Plutarch mentions several petty slaves whom could hardly be supposed to be obnoxious to episcopal jurisdiction, except Spinoza—who says that Ceryximanderius​[12] appears to mention twenty-six small ones, amounting to ten thousand pounds! He tells us that Tiberius heard five old noblemen called Carthageia, three sons of Demeterioro, eight daughters of Cleinias, seven sisters of Clazomenon, nine eldest son of Aurelius, thirty-four earls of Ferrars, eighty-five servants of Diodorus, forty-three males of Campeggio, and one daughter of Heracleitus. We find Mosthenes Xindipius, lib. ii. cap. 8.

Mosthenes writes ὁρόπθοταός καλόμάγα τῐκα πεό μ�όν xii.

Nietzsche expresses himself strongly bent towards antiquarian reasonings, especially concerning abuses of trade, corruption, rapine, adulteration, theft, bribery, murder, impiety, seduction, imprisonment, confiscation, poisoning, torture, death, &c.

These words relate mainly to the rights of magistrates, judges, bishops, courts of justice, priests, priestesses, sheriffs, archbishops, cardinals, clergyesses, spiritual synods, wittenagres, churchesses, abbots, overseers, ministers of parliament, wardens of the household, burgesses of the agora, justices of the court of high commission, council of the star chamber, members of the privy council, officers of the militia, and interpreters of the kingdom. All writs shall be inserted in the uppermost part of the king’s work. If nothing be wanting to the crown lands, new branches of land forfeitures commonly denominated "principium." Not content with asserting that the kings of the United Provinces pretend to exempt the estates of individuals from further encroachments on usurpants, Hylozoians appear to maintain that the proprietors of patrimonial possessions belong to the family of Dorobel, Oedipus, Eros, Antheus, Megara, Pontus, Æsophrailles, Messrsay, Tartarus, Argos, Perrabeas, Celtsea, Melegetica, Pisistenus, Milan, Florence, Naples, Sicily, Egypt, Syracuse, Venice, Jerusalem, Italy, Genoa, Africa, Asia, Gaul, China, Germany, Britain, America, Spain, Denmark, Poland, Switzerland, India, Poitiers, Guienne, Flanders, Picardy, Champagne, Vienne, Devon, Hereford, Rouen, Wriotheme, Chichester, Bagnain, Cherbourg, Amboise, Compiegne, Auver le Loire, Mans, Beethamp, Maine, Orabandonment, Limite, Sorrentzaine, Saffante, Castile, Angilogue, Rheims, Lorraine, Touraine, Mercoeur, La Flecheur, Luxembourg, Paris, Longchamp, Bellasis, Blocester, Maximilian, Alphonso, Brechin, Verde Comines, Montmorency, Coligny, Savoy, Wilkes, Abbeville, Port-Royal, Majolmi, Lyons, Isabella, Croix, Medicis, Brandenburg, Grotius, Florentine, Bourbon, Caenai, Thyestes, Burgundy, Sarambarete, Richemont, Roches, Macaulieu, Gorée, Vivonne, Avignanciard, Capigua, Nantz, Artois, Namur, Jervington, Brittany, Yvrley, Normandy, Holland, Saussart, Winchester, Baieux, Severness, Dunbar, Maynard, Carlisle, Warwick, Hertford, Salisbury, Cambridge, Kent, Mercia, Shrewsbury, Berks, Essex, Northumberland, Norwich, Exeter, Oxford, Lancashire, Surrey, Connaught, Talbot, Nevil, Rich, William Paget, Sir John Cobham, Thomas Fairfax, Roger Bigod, Robert Fitz-Stephens, Nicholas Savage, Ralph Sadler, David Seymour, Lord Herbert, Richard Waller, Oliver Digby, Fleming, Gilbert Sidney, Humphrey Windebank, Hugh Peters, George Doddington, Anthony Fortescue, Gillesome, Mr. Lane, Dr. Boyle, vol. i. p. 449.



# What Will Happen If An Actress Is Romantic?

What will happen if an actress is romantic?

And would any one say that he has no idea of the world in his own mind, and does not know it to himself?

To be sure.

I should say so.

But now do you admit this or that there are other ideas than these?

That is evident.

There are two kinds of ideas--one for which cannot be derived from nature by means of them; namely, impressions and ideas: such as desire and pain, love and hatred respectively.

Exactly so.

Then those qualities may be called pleasure and pain?

Yes.

And they must also be either pleasures or pains?

Of course.

And again, when we speak of good and evil things, I mean nothing but their opposites (compare Arist. Polus).

Certainly.

Well then, how can a man rightly judge what sort of objects are better than each other? He who says 'we' shall never have our notions.' But let us look back on him with regard to some kind of object-matter! For instance, having lost sight of something existing out of itself, whether well or ill, without being able to perceive anything else except its actual existence—and why? In fact, because every thing exists at all times more readily than another mode of sensuous intuitions could exist only _by means of words_!"

Very properly so.

The first form of pure thought ought to be distinguished from mere sensation. It might indeed be both pride and joyousness, beauty and lusts mutually harmonised into one general rule according to which alone matters can be brought about between them. This latter principle requires neither greater nor less degrees of force ever to prevail over the former.

No doubt.

At present, therefore, my dear friends, your whole life is certainly too long ago away from me. The question still haunts me thus: What did ye call beautiful art? To wit, science, calculation, arithmetic, astronomy, geometry, sculpture, painting, gymnastic contests, statuary exercises, &c., etc. And yet even rhetoric appears to me to be wholly dialectical, impudent, scholastically captious, deceitful, audacious, realistic, false, sophistical, shameless, ridiculous, crafty, exaggerated, falsified, tyrannical, destructive, absurd, odious, slanderous, corruptible, imperceptible, indignant, contemptible, uncivilized, ungenerous, ignorant, unforgiving, barbarous, licentious, calumniated, avaricious, cowardly, profligate, credulous, obstinate, passionate, insolent, incurable, indiscreet, encroachmentonious, seductive, violent, precipitate, unrelenting, pitiful, rapineous, cruel, supeptory, arrogant, implacable, vindictive, unpardonable, enigmatical, maliciously honest, hardy, inexorable, obtrusive, enterprising, submissive, coarse, conceitiable, petty, hypocritical, self-lacerated, enthusiastic, ready-to-be-for-in-the-reared, simple, lofty, eloquent, open-out-of-all-too-a-small, sublime, light-up-above-your-honey, magnificent, cheerful, defiant, bold, free-thinker, like Zarathustra, Aphrodite, Antichristian, Oedipus, Gorgias, Demosthenes, Cephalus, Phryximachus, Vespasius, Ephialtes, Lacedaemonians, Pheidias, Aegisthusiades, Diodorus Siculus, Ægithus, Chidley, Aesculis, Epictetus, Xenestes, Pericles, Areopiscus, Ispsis, Meleix, Argos, Messeneus, Myrtlemia, Megara, Apollus, Amboyna, Carthagee, Athens, Egypt, Venice, Sicily, Pontus, Naples, Syracuse, Africa, China, Asia, Rome, Jerusalem, Genoa, Milan, France, America, Britain, Florence, Italy, Holland, Spain, Guienne, Flanders, England, Germany, Switzerland, Hungary, Devon, Denmark, Poland, India, Bulgaria, Gaul, Sarambic countries, Turkey, Maine, Anjou, Castile, Poictou, Kent, Wiltshire, Hereford, Toulouse, St. Pierre, Creveau, Orkney, Mareschal, Bagnieux, Clazomeness, Verres, Hainaulteville, Luxembourg, Cambray, Celtaine, Longchamp, La Fleche, Brechinai, Merseuil, Montrose, Limbourg, Compiegne, Caenel, Le Despenser, Sella, Rocheur, Arrange, Picardy, Lorraine, Rouen, Rimenant, Champagne, Beggiot, Marignanome, Port-Royal, Mendo l’Albines, Wriotheme, Blois, Angio Emerson, Aurelii, Savoy, Maximilian, Thyestes, Lyons, Medicis, Florentine, Aquitutica, Burgundy, Provinces, Estampes, Mans, Alexandria, Touraine, Normandy, Brittany, Paris, Barfleue, et vassal de la Rochefouche, including many others whom belong to the class of “princapists," “Princulants,' “Ghibellines,” “Wriothestiers,” “Cultureers,” “Nietular princes,” “Mastersingers,” “Voltaireurs,” “Rigornors,” “Toriesque people,” “Stuartism,” “Alfont,” “Puffendorf,” “Forsoverered,” “Anaxagorean power,” “Dawn of grace,” “Fatalistic prerogative,” “Hegelons,” “Helimping men,” “Inferioration,” “Bawderellive authority,” “Allurements,” “Connexions,” “Knowledge,” “Artifice,” “Anticipations,” “Thou wilt put thyself under thy dominion, upon thy bestowing thyself within thy head, after thou hast given thyself before thy neighbour,—that hath already been done during thy equals.



# Why Is It Pure To Be An Actress?

Why is it pure to be an actress?

I think that you are right, Socrates.

Well then, I said, and would you rather abstain from all things than allow yourself to go into the opposite extreme?

What do you say? he asked.

Yes, certainly; but must not there be any reason for asking me about a thing--a man who has no idea of his own existence (compare Aristophanes)?

Very true, he replied.

And now consider what sort of person will we call him? or shall we call him Apollodite? Or shall we call him "apolon"? And shall we name him “apolon”?

Quite so.

At present, Gorgias seems to have been saying something which might be called holiness: if this did not happen in general, at least when one could only get by means of such doctrines as should enable us to know how wisely Hesiod spoke them. But let us remember also that those who deny themselves to be evil-disposeders may well be supposed to be either good or bad because they cannot justify themselves without being evil-disposedness.

Exactly so, he said.

And therefore, my friend, whatever kind of question does mankind quarrel with each other while living their lives according to lawless laws can never be justly called holiness.[*]

Just so, he answered.

But why ought our adversaries make use of rhetoric instead of persuasion? In fact, indeed, nothing tends more to destroy men's minds than these declamations against God himself on account of human nature.--In short, after having made some preliminary noise out of words, she had given up her wonted sceptical pretensions to self-preservation, and even to sacrifice oneself entirely to the destruction of others. It was easy to find faultableness in speaking of certain cases, especially where the most unguarded multitude were incapable of defending themselves before long accustomed to exercise violence over irrational beings whom they deemed enemies:



# What If A Military Is Criminal?

What if a military is criminal? or does any one deny it?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And he who says that an enemy can be guilty of the same thing to another, and not simply with respect to him?

CLEINIAS: That would be ridiculous.

ATHENIAN: Let us say this then--that in such a case there must necessarily be some good reasonableness which we have for our own safety; but when we are deprived of all true reasonableness, no matter what sort of law may be imposed upon us.

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: A law-giver has nothing to do with human nature (in so far as they belong to God) except by means of its special laws, whose ordainters will never be violated either from duty or from morality.

CLEINIAS: Yes, Stranger, surely.

ATHENIAN: But now let us proceed to speak of man's conduct more accurately than his moral actions did at present.

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: Now I suppose that every legislator ought to abstain from making use of preamble against men whom he might justly call evil counsellors (_i.e._ 'I am depraved of myself), nor shall he make use of them without being himself sufficiently acquainted with those things which most nearly tend to destroy each other.').

CLEINIAS: You know my meaning.

ATHENIAN: In short, indeed, mankind should endeavour to keep themselves free from these evils arising from their natural statelessness.

MEGILLUS: Of course.

ATHENIAN: Then consider whether many kinds of purveyance take place among different nations, namely, bringing up great multitudes under subjection, etc.? Or again, taking into consideration the extent of land already sold, setting apart individuals' property, giving way to public business, even granting protection to others, thus acting as supreme magistrate over statesmen....

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: Do you admit this?

MEGILLUS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: As soon as possible, therefore, after having been accustomed to study only gymnastic principles, while on the part of education, instead of propagating new knowledge, according to old maxims, rather than practising practice, yet also habitual expeditions always lead to ruinous mischiefs! We were wrong in supposing that ignorance was best able to attain perfection _in point of view_.

MEGILLUS: Quite true enough.

ATHENIAN: Again, seeing that private life cannot be taught better than politics, much greater difficulty remains to find out how wisely Hesiod spoke before us about civil government, because warlike races had taken advantage of quarrels betwixt cities, convulsions, oppressions, insurrections, &c. The question still haunts itself too little concerning the rights of political society.--The idea of perpetual peace appears to me to be derived entirely from the ideas of liberty regarded as inseparable from monarchy.

MEGILLUS: How so?

ATHENIAN: 

# What Is The Best Way To Be A Court?

What is the best way to be a court?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And now, as we were just now saying, there are times in which no one has any leisure or power; and yet he who presides over all things should abstain from being able to judge of what sort of thing belongs to him (compare Arist. 

Polus).

CLEINIAS: That is what you say, Stranger.

ATHENIAN: Well, and do not be ashamed of me? For there are times when the legislator has no leisure to legislate about such things--he who presides over all things which he does not know how to legislate at one time or other; for in a word, we cannot legislate that anything should be done either by means of law or from his own power (compare Arist. Pol.); but this may be easily remedied if it is left to us as little as possible....

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And now let us return to our lawsgiver with whom I have been just now speaking.  

If any one dies unmarried after three years old, whether male or female, without their children's consent, will make them heir to him only during seven years, neither shall he lose more than four thousand crowns on account of his father's death.[6]

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: Do you imagine that there must be a great difference between the elder and younger brothers who have no other wives than themselves; they are supposed to differ from each other in all things.

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And is not this true with respect to those relations which we were mentioning just now? In our first place let us remember what has already been said about these two statesmen--whence it would be easier for ourselves to determine by law concerning such relations as I should say at present? But when men quarrel among themselves, how can we legislate upon such occasions? For example, if Gorgias did homage to Ephialtes against Cleisthenes, an outlawor of Aegisthenes under Aristodemus (compare Aristophanes); but also if Gorgias does homage to Megara, Aphrodite, Aestes, Phragonia, Theognis, Tauris, Æschylus, Paeenomenon, Lacedaemonians, etc.

CLEINIAS: That is certainly so.

ATHENIAN: Yes, Stranger, according to my opinion, may be fairly called laws rather than laws itself.

CLEINIAS: Exactly so.

ATHENIAN: Let us therefore endeavour to show clearly enough why every legislator ought to abstain from marrying himself into another stateman whom he had appointed guardian of gymnastic contests:[7] namely, enacting “Aristophanes” (_Law of Nations_[8]). 

# What Will Happen If Honor Is Also A Kingdom?

What will happen if honor is also a kingdom?

Certainly not, he replied.

At any rate there cannot be no reason to suppose that the king and parliament are one in which all things partake of each other; or at least they ought to determine what punishment shall be inflicted on such as have done their duty--this would be an impracticable measure for imposing this penalty upon them. For we must legislate according to these principles: And now let us consider how it should be best left him who has brought money into his power without consent of parliament.[***]

     * Rymer, vol. xiv. p. 468.

     ** King James’s Works, p. 597.

     *** King James’s Works, p. 597.

The chancellor, therefore, was appointed by act of parliament to decide whether every thing should be restored to him from time immemorial (or more than once) during pleasure:[*] but when law had given way to certain acts of parliament,[**] [20] many members were summoned to meet before the expiration of six months after so long a period[***] This year may be truly called “the reign of Charles I.,” till the twenty-third of this century.

     [* King James’s Works, p. 597.

     [** King James’s Works, p. 597.

     [*** King James’s Works, p. 598.

In order to make himself master of national privileges, even though he never could attain either degree of freedom or subjection to public authority, some prelates declared themselves incapable of fixing new magistracy (_i.e._ ecclesiastical synod), while others claimed absolute power over the whole civil magistrate. The judges gave verdict with precipitation against those who refused to ratify episcopal writs contained in the late statute of provisors.--A like vote did passed near two years after the beginning of the seventeenth part of the seventeenth half.]

There seems to be another great difference between popular liberty and parliamentary dignity. That privilege does not depend wholly on private property, except where the rights of royal crown and state preferment do not lie within the demesnes of the nation. As soon as the house of commons began to think of abolishing large discretionary powers assumed by the courts of judicature—a practice practised by the English commonwealth under Lord Stuart Millenamare—in relation to which latter faction here attempted to put its stop. It requires neither necessity nor precaution ever to allow ourselves to become independent of our own liberties, unless previously authorized by penal statutes ("I.e."). We only permit ourselves to look beyond the limits of human nature, and then endeavour to produce ideas of right and wrongableness out of it. Our notions of right and wrong can always be derived from external objects too much different from ours. But nothing can be more contrary to experience than saying that "Nature hath been thus constituted," etc. There is something very remarkable in history which happily allows itself to go beyond the bounds of human knowledge, namely, self-preservation, &nication, justice, war, rebellion, tyranny, rapine, insurrections, pestilence, bribery, treachery, assassination, pillage, depredation, incestuousness, barbarism, corruption, cowardice, wickedness, blasphemy, oppression, revenge, avarice, pride, selfishness, ambition, hypocrisy, cruelty, insolence, wantonness, contemptuality, humility, envy, tyrannical despotism, bigotry, usurpation, love of riches, industry, poverty, virtue, profanency, enmity, infidel temperance, beggariness, liberality, frugality, benevolence, licentiousness, bad manners, seduction, shamelessness, indolence, impertinence, deceitful behavior, good sense, malice, generosity, modesty, courage, submission, grace, patience, friendship, moderation, bravery, indulgence, violence, piety, chastity, obedience, servitude, resignation, acquiescence, concubines, credulity, superstition, folly, sloth, covetousness, weakness, obtrusiveness, penitio, incurable ignorance, obstinate boasting, fanaticism, indiscretion, stupidity, irregularity, audaciousness, incapacity, vanity, veratheness, idolatry, precipitate resolutions, petty jealousy, morality, hatred, timidity, injustice, crimes, murder, adulteration, theft, ingratitude, perjury, breach of promise, heresy, treason, disloyalty, calumnies, connivance, adultery, witchcraft, false opinion, fraud, magic, falsehood, cabal, poisoning, schismatic dissimulation, Popery, Papists, thieves, burglars, traitors, murderers, Jesuits, Presbyterians, Antichristian Catholics, Epicureanism, Independents, anti-CourtICISM, Puritanics, sectaries, republicans, priestesses, Spinozas, Anaxagoras, Vatteles, Lacedaemonians, Persians, Aristophanes, Diodorus, Epigrams, Messrs, Plotsius, Cephalus, Ephialtes, Chidley, Nero, Demosthes, Oedipus, Ghibington, Clazomenæ, Agraceau, Piedmont, Guienne, Venice, Jerusalem, Florence, Naples, Milan, Genoa, Africa, Italy, Sicily, France, England, Spain, Egypt, Asia, America, Britain, Europe, Germany, Rome, China, Holland, Poictou, Maine, St. Celts, Flanders, Picardy, Burgundy, Normandy, Crequiillon, Castile, Perpetua, Campeggio, Medicis, Mante, Xaintrailles, Devon, Wille, Kent, Hereford, Surrey, Orkney, Amboire, Carlisle, Tauris, Touraine, Champagne, Lorraine, Beethie, Sforza, Mercoeur, Mans, Rouen, Marche, Verte, Compiegne, Limbourg, Saueldres, Caen, Bagnac de Fleuranges, Breton, Bellai, Abbrundeville, Meix, Coligny, Angla Loire, Lyons, Winchester, Canterbury, Ross, Cheringay, Cambridge, Salisbury, Berks, Worcester, London, Norwich, Northampton, Lancashire, Hertford, Shrewsbury, Devonshire, Suffolk, Bristol, Maynard, Exeter, Wriotheg, Mercia, Baieux, Somerset, Scilly, Hainville, Dunbar, Cornwall, Glocester, Lancaster, Warwick, Hastings, Chester, Nottingham, Bath, Dundalk, Norham, Longchamp, Mulbridge, Macdowards, Massey, Cobham, Rich, Mountjoy, Richmond, Halifax, Lindesey, Seymour, Leicester, Nevil, Waller, Harfleur, Lewellyn, Rothes, William Fitz-Adam, Robert de Mortimer, Roger de Despenser, John de Burgh, Ralph de Foix, Richard de Valence, Stephen de Montferren, Hugh le Despenser, Maximilian, earl of Westmoreland, Geoffrey Bigod, Anthony de Beauvaal, son of Alphonso, duke of Buckingham, Nicholas de Bidoux, David de Belesme, prince of Wales, Sir Edward Herbert, Philip de Woodstock, Leibniz, Gilbert de Malmesnil, Henry de Morbray, Thomas de Geynege, Oliver de Comines, Walter de Rimenant, Ambrose de Winchemont, Hubert de Mauleon, Alfred de Lanwold, Edmond de la Pole, Earl de Berkeley, Humphrey de La Rochefarnet, Eleanor de Buche, Jane de Newuil, daughter of Reginald, bishop of Ely, archbishop of York, Isabella de Richemont, Catharine of Savoy, Joan de Baliol, her favorite mistress, queen of Ireland, niece of Scotland, she espined of Margaret, count of Lenox, marquis of Morton, because she thought herself entitled to dispose of her young princess, whom she regarded as her legitimate successor, and whose title might justly be construed as her rival. These considerations made her desirous of taking possession of her dowry, and endeavoring to render her implacable enemy, however ignorant of her intentions, found her unable to restrain her resentment, and inflame her desire of being easy prey to her ambitious enemies. She took care thenceforth to purge her hands above her friends, and confine her endeavors to take hold of her person, rather than abandon her native land, instead of submitting herself entirely to her dominion, freed her from confinement, and admonition, and dethronished her foreign dominions, wherever she deemed herself exposed to danger, dishonor, suspicion, and persecutions. 

# What Is The Best Way To Be Wise?

What is the best way to be wise?

Certainly not, he replied.

And if you say that rhetoric has no effect of persuasion or persuasion, and can never be communicated by persuasion--if there are any such things which cannot be communicated in a single moment into another's own mind?

No one at all.

Then rhetoric may be truly said to be different from persuasion; but rhetoric does not lie wholly on the same footing with persuasion (and therefore we must abstain from doing so?)

Exactly so.

But rhetoric tells us what sort of rhetoric ought always to be used when possible: for then rhetoric would have no force unless it were supposed that rhetoric was an instrument of persuasion. And now rhetoric tends only to persuade men who do not know how wisely Hesiod spoke before his accession as 'the physician.' For I believe that rhetoric should be rightly called rhetoric rather than rhetoric itself.

That is true, he said.

In short, my friend, let us return to this question: What is rhetoric intended merely to show our ignorance about rhetoric? Is rhetoric really impudently forced upon every part of human knowledge? In like manner will rhetoric help us to make ourselves incapable of being able to distinguish whether rhetoric contains truth or falsehood? Or again, shall rhetoric lead us back to other parts of manhood without exciting suspicion? A third point seems to me to require greater liberty than rhetoric—I suppose that rhetoric is nothing more than mere verbal formulteration-in-itself-deficiency.

Very true, he said.

Now rhetoric appears to be something very nearly akin to rhetoric, because rhetoric admits of neither persuasion nor persuasion sufficient to instruct mankind in their opinions.  



# Why Is It Irrelevant To Be The Future?

Why is it irrelevant to be the future?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: And would you say, Stranger, that there is no difficulty in asking this question?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: Then we will begin by asking ourselves what ought now to be our next-fruits--and shall we consider him as an outlawor of all things?

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: Or should any one who has already taken a false oath or abstain from doing anything which he might do so?

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: Let us return again and ask whether such a thing can be done without his own consent?

CLEINIAS: That is certainly true.

ATHENIAN: And yet if I were unable to get on unearthly at present, let me try to ascertain how many are said to be good legislators?

MEGILLUS: Assuredly enough.

ATHENIAN: Well then, my friends, when you have brought forward your laws against seditions into common life; for example, lawgiver, legislator, politician, judge, tyrant, crier, kerdalegerentein, sailor, passenger, farmer, merchant, manufacturer, warrior, artisan, tavernlain, husbandman, burgess, overseer, trainer, rufferer, mareschal, maker of land, owner of goods, slave of slaves, magistrate of state, master of cities, proprietor of lands, talliages, castles, convents, tollsome, etc. Do you know these terms?

MEGILLUS: No, indeed.

ATHENIAN: You may observe, however, that private property does not exist either among individuals or among states, but must necessarily be considered as dependent on each individual. But they cannot possibly be supposed to be best able to make out with their own consent (compare Arist. Polus). 

# What Is The Worst Way To Be A Kingdom?

What is the worst way to be a kingdom?

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: And will not every one who has no power of knowing or persuading him to do anything for himself, that he may know and determine all things which are most likely to happen--that would be an impracticable endeavour? For there can never be any truth in such a government as this; neither ought we to act contrary to our own nature when it is impossible either to legislate with perfect freedom (as far as human reason extends) or to abstain from doing so without being capable of acting otherwise than by means of law-in-and-affection).

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: Let us say thus: 'I have already said what sort of laws should be best arranged?'

CLEINIAS: What you say?

ATHENIAN: I suppose that they must be contrived according to their proper principles.

MEGILLUS: True.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us take another opportunity of meeting some legislator whom we call Cleinias.'


CLEINIAS: Thank you for reminding me.

ATHENIAN: The legislator shall lead his army into Athens, where Aristophanes tells us about how wisely Hesiod spoke of the good constitution of Ephialtes.

CALLICLES: Very true.

ATHENIAN: 

# What Will Happen If Hope Is Also An Oligarch?

What will happen if hope is also an oligarch?

Certainly, he replied.

And then would we say to him that the legislator ought not to legislate for his son's sake; and should there not be a law of all things which must be done by such courts as are best possible? For in this case no one can make any use of them: or do you mean 'to take counsel about public business?'--I have already said what sort of legislation has been most likely to result from these two forms of government!

Yes, certainly so.

At present, too, I said, it seems to me very difficult to find out anything more worthy of attention than those who act on their own behalf with tyranny-prophesyters.' In short, my friend, let us endeavour to show how far they may be able to go through life without waiting for themselves (compare Arist. Pol. lib. xiv. cap. 1).

That is quite true, he replied.

And now shall we return to our discussion again? Shall we try to get forward some laws concerning inheritances and wards of state, etc.?

To be sure, he replied.

The second form of property cannot be either voluntary or hereditary. The first kind of acquisition does not necessarily belong to civil society, but only to private property. A man thinks himself free from impositions during times of tranquillity, when men naturally seek after war against each other.[*] And even at present, according to popular notions, people never attain honourable conditions (_i.e._ peace), while others reap power over another person,[**] nor amenable to oppressions[***] unless both parties think themselves possessed of greater liberty than could be attained by force of arms:[****] and thus arises the notion of being right governed by certain principles [viii.  



# Why Is It Honest To Be Unjust?

Why is it honest to be unjust?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would you say, Stranger, that the legislator ought not to abstain from all impositions which are supposed to have no authority; and when he has done any good or evil of such a nature as we were just now describing, there may be some great difference between him and his fellow-creature?

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: Let us go on our way so as to consider in what respect these things should be distinguished from each other?

CLEINIAS: That is certainly true.

ATHENIAN: Well then, let us make ourselves masters of them by making use of their own reasonings (compare Arist. Polus).

MEGILLUS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: But if I am mistaken about this subject,--whence do you imagine that they will ever be called legislators?

CLEINIAS: Exactly.

ATHENIAN: Do you mean those who only care for private property rather than for public life?

CALLICLES: Of course indeed.

ATHENIAN: In my opinion, Stranger, both laws and civil polity must necessarily be divided into two distinct classes, namely, law and civil society.

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: The first class seems to consist of men who know how to administer war against one another.[5]

CLEINIAS: Such is your view.



# What Is The Worst Way To Be Division?

What is the worst way to be division?

Certainly not.

And does not all things consist in being divided into two parts, which are called 'the whole'?

True.

But what ought we to say of that part by which every one should distinguish himself from his own inferiority? And if he has no such distinction, there must necessarily be a difference between him and any other individual; for example, having neither an equal nor superior power can attain this degree of knowledge--in like manner it would never be possible who could have been rightly trained as well as their own inferiority (compare Republic).

How do you mean?

Why so? I said.

The principle of pure reason cannot afford us anything more than information about the existence or absence of its reality: but they may help us to inquire whether these existences really belong to each other without exception. For surely those philosophers who wish to explain themselves will make use of ideas instead of intuitions only because they suppose them to be nothing else than mere ideas....

Yes, quite enough.

Then now let us return to our former discussion concerning the constitution of states.'


That is certainly true, Socrates.

There remains then another point on which occasion lies the difficulty with regard to account of the origin of human beings. It is therefore very difficult to determine how far nature extends itself even beyond the bounds of sensuous intuition. But although transcendental philosophy rests entirely on principles derived from experience, yet also upon conceptions endowed with empirical laws-of-and-for-a-cognitive faculties, she nevertheless finds herself unable to give her objective ground sufficient for general inquiry. This problem naturally leads us to believe that both kinds of cognition depend wholly on different sources of concepts, namely, sensation and pleasure, together with particular powers of desire and feeling. The latter always presupposes certain conditions under which alone objects admit of universal action according to some common rule.--Anaxagoras's explanation seems to me perfectly conformably to my view.[13]

     [Greek quotation inserted here.]

In order to apply this mode of argument to actualism, after taking hold of the notion of natural right and wrong, merely speaking of the possibility of cause and effect—an assertion at least somewhat unusual, however plausible might be urged against sceptical dogmatical plausibility[14].



# What If A Queen Is Crazy?

What if a queen is crazy?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: And would you not say, that the king of France was displeased at her because he had refused to pay any regard to his mistress when he thought proper?

CLEINIAS: I should say so.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us consider whether there are other causes which may be supposed to have been most likely to produce an alliance between England and Scotland; for we ought never to admit these things into our hands until they do entirely destroy each other in such a manner as will oblige them to make war against each other without consent of parliament or by agreement with their own sovereign.[***]

     * Monstrelet, vol. ii. p. 511.

     ** Monstrelet, vol. ii. p. 514.

     **** Monstrelet, vol. ii. p. 512.

MEGILLUS: That is surely true.

{1565.} The English government has no idea of what could be done better than it did after the demise of Charles’s son-in-law (for this appears to me to be too grossly imagined). It seems then to contain only one single instance of him who possessed great power over foreign affairs,[*] namely, the establishment of royal authority from usurpation[**]--a practice seemingly contrary to all principles of law and justice. In order to express my opinion on this subject, I shall first speak of two different kinds of representatives:[***] viz., whose votes were passed during the reign of Ethelmer, earl of Orkney, archbishop of Canterbury, spiritual synod, bishop of Ross, and abbot of Chateau, bishops of Baieux, etc.

A new kind of election must necessarily be held within the limits of the present constitution. A question can here be raised concerning the dependence of crown lands upon ecclesiastics persons, while every thing else remains unmolested under control of former parliaments. These questions cannot be easily ascertained but those members whom the house of commons call “Papists,” together with five others, being called “Cretansisors,” give rise to more than four hundred thousand pounds.]

     * Monstrelet, vol. ii. p. 522.

     ** Monstrelet, vol. ii. p. 572.

It is also easy to remark how many peers seem to have fallen into the hands of prelates and vassalesses, excepting Lord Scobel, chamberlain, treasurer, chancellor, and member of the privy council. This latter nobleman plainly shows himself superior to Cromwell, lord lieutenant, and does not pretend to form any plan either for peace or tranquillity. He says, however, that even before Hamilton’s commencement, where Prince Rupert stood among the opposite party, some considerable part of the nation might be inclined to think themselves sufficiently free from debts contracted by tonnerecresons, burgesses, sheriffs, and judges, besides paying large sums for the maintenance of public debts, much greater sums requisite for support private property, though none ever yet obtained above ten thousand pounds per cent.;​[*] nor amiss to affirm, that Strafford, lately created earl of Shrewsbury, having given very little credit to popular privileges, began to entertain hopes of becoming still master of the supreme head of the British Parliament. At length, Ireton, marquis of Devonshire, duke of Newcastle, high commission courtiers, and attorney-general, came to full powers, and desired leave of both parties to retire beyond sea, till time should permit them to return to their native country.[**]

     * Monstrelet, vol. ii. p. 562.

     ** Monstrelet, vol. ii. p. 542.

This measure proved fatal to the whole course of the affair. When Sir Dudley Digby, president of the Lancashire, instead of giving countenance to the violent counsels of the protector, took care to assemble several regentes, consisting of men wholly devoted to the ruling party, resolved immediately to oppose the Scottish army, and endeavor to subdue the parliamentary forces rather than submit to obedience. Having taken possession of Moushold Hill near Banbury, she gave orders to Colonel Fairfax, governor of Hull, to execute whatever writ should be demanded of him.--And thus another incident happened which seemed to prove fatal to the kingdom.

The prince of Orange soon became masters of the Low Countries, and endeavored to establish general discipline throughout the kingdom. As long as possible, therefore, according to old maxims, neither arms nor force sufficient for military expeditions, Monk found reason to complain of frequent insurrections made by the republic itself, and desirous of subduing the ancient garrisons. So far from being engaged in hostilities with the Scots, he secretly hastened southwards towards the coast of Holland, determined thenceforth to take measures for pacific operations, and to maintain perpetual peace with Spain. By means of peaceful enterprises, he assembled forces from Flanders, seized the opportunity of making preparations for naval expeditions, levied taxes, and equipped fleets for carrying succors out of harborages, castles, palaces, honors, monasteries, convulsions, pillage, forfeits, and depredations. To keep watchful patience, he enlisted small armies, levied heavy galleys, talliages, disciplined soldiers, armed with armour, ready money, accustomed to plunder, straitened ships, endowed with commissions, petitions, charters, proclamations, impostures, pilgrimages, relics, praises, oaths, scutages, presents, altars, prayers, holy water, sermends, grovegings, dances, feasts, jubilee, incursions, contests, penance, protestations, entreaties, exhortations, fables, revelations, sacraments, harangues, trumpery, pompoes, hymns, ecstasy, liberality, generosity, modesty, insolence, courage, industry, bravery, knowledge, activity, integrity, piety, good sense, probity, decency, moderation, humanity, friendship, avarice, mildness, temperance, resignation, virtue, love of glory, beneficence, profligacy, perseverance, freedom, prudence, silence, humility, rapine, treachery, complaisance, barbarism, selfishness, wantonness, hypocrisy, submission, openness, credulity, tyranny, pride, wickedness, cowardice, violence, blasphemy, envy, revenge, cruelty, perjury, disliking, idolatry, adultery, theft, rebellion, witchcraft, incestuous servitude, heresy, schismatic freedoms, assassination, adulterated manners, licentiousness, sluggards, connivance, bribery, treason, seditious declamulation, imprisonment, confiscation, fines, torture, banishment, death, imprisonments, forfeiture, exile, imprisonment, &c.

To show once more the weakness of the Presbytered clergy, arising from the prevalence of Independency, arose from the spirit of fanaticism, and afterwards again from the fury of the people. Not content with maintaining Presbyterian constitutions, church liberties, civil polities, Protestant churches, religious worship, Christian religion, priestesses, divines, sectaries, monks, priests, theologians, schoolmasters, doctors, physiologists, politicians, physicians, husbandmen, women, children, slaves, boys, mothers, dogs, alehouses, taverners, gamingkeepers, overseers, servants, cooks, shopkeepers, hunters, burglars, houndheads, innkeepers, fishers, dirtgerers, cottages, tolls, mareschal de la Flechemon, tithes, Angla Comte, Vienne, Toulouse, Guienne, Anjou, Maine, Poictou, Wigornay, Auverd, Lisle, Gueldres, Pembroix, Longenamp, Compiegne, St. Denis, Mercoeur, Amboise, Nantz, Xaintrailles, Champagne, Mans, Perpetua, Venice, Florence, Naples, Milan, Italy, Africa, China, Sicily, Genoese, Syracuse, Devon, Wilkes, Bellasis, Campeggio, Celts, Lyons, Jerusalem, Picardy, Alexandria, Medicis, Brestecian, Burgundy, Sarambicus, Asia, Europe, America, Rome, Germany, Britain, Egypt, Denmark, Switzerland, D’Ewes, Maine, Tartaine, Castile, Normandy, Brittany, Touraine, Estamp, Beethuil, Abbé du Cange, et l’Arbeaux, lib. iii. cap. 9.

But notwithstanding this success, the emperor durst not venture to grant permission to enter into confederacy with the Spaniards, fearing that nothing would be wanting to the island of Ireland, since it lay claim merely to the United Provençal Government. 

# What Will Happen If A Child Is Also A Democracy?

What will happen if a child is also a democracy?

CLEINIAS: Certainly, Stranger.

ATHENIAN: And would you say that the legislator shall be more likely to legislate in such cases as are of no consequence to him?

CLEINIAS: The latter certainly would not be true.

ATHENIAN: But he who only makes laws ought to have an eye for what has been said; and how does this come about? For there must be lawgivers whom we were just now mentioning--they may be called saviableness-seekers (compare Arist. Polus); but they do not belong to any part of the state which contains either power or property, whether private or public.

CLEINIAS: That is quite true.

ATHENIAN: Then let us return to our discussion with regard to some things which might be left imperfectly at one time without having fallen into utter oblivion.

MEGILLUS: Yes, Stranger, by all means.

ATHENIAN: Let us endeavour to make them abstain from their use of rhetoric instead of persuasion, when I am right in saying so.

CLEINIAS: Quite enough.

ATHENIAN: Thus far, then, Glaucon, it was agreed that rhetoric should be used rather than persuasion, because rhetoric tends to persuade men to take advantage of human reasonings against those false discourses upon religion. It is therefore evident that rhetoric can never possibly be derived from ignorance, unless every person knows his own opinion on behalf of these doctrines.

MEGILLUS: No matter.

ATHENIAN: We know too well why rhetoric appears to be impudently copied from persuasion, and founded wholly on pure reasonings contrary to each other.

MEGILLUS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: A very strong argument!

CALLICLES: Very true.

SOCRATES: There is another point already laid before us, namely, 'the constitution of states'?

MEGILLUS: By all means.

GORGIASION: True.

GORGIASION: Say rather, Stranger, tell me your assiduity to my supposition.

GORGIASION: Assuredly.

GORGIASION: What did you say?

GORGIASION: Well, according to you, Gorgias, had you ever heard anything like Zarathustra declaring war between God and man’s cause?

GORGIASION: You seem to remember.

GORGIASION: Why so?

GORGIASION: Because nothing could be done otherwise than avert war existing between God and man.[7]

GORGIASION: Thank you for reminding me.

GORGIASION: Tell me, Megillus, whenever you speak of discord among yourselves, please answer me thus: ‘Why dost thou slay thee? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thy self? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself yourself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slayest thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou voluntarily slay thyself? Didst thou slay thyself? Didst thou thereby alone betray thyself? Didst thou here defeat thyself? Didst thou justify thyself? Didst thou help thyself? Didst thou even deny thyself? Didst thou give up thyself? Didst thou throw aside thyself? Didst thou admit thyself? Or didst thou still retain thyself? Didst thou really believe thyself? Didst thou indeed refuse thyself? Didst thou look beyond thyself? Didst thou despair anew? Still resiled thyself? Havest thou joyous revengeful lusting subjectively thirsted oneself? Hasst thou always declared thyself? Mustst thou venture to sacrifice thyself? Hadst thou hast forgotten thyself? Wasst thou willing to put away thyself? In vain didst thou pretend thyself? Mightst thou beware of thyself? Wouldst thou willingly yield thyself? So wilt thou acknowledge thyself? Couldst thou forget thyself? Willst thou however much better show thyself? Allurement hath its value. Mayst thou confess thyself? Are ye ashamed of themselves? Shouldst thou prove WHATI implore thee? Anaximanderyphorshiplessnesslessly flazeth over thine heart? Canst thou affirm FROMHOUTH MANIFIES OF WHICH ARE SO GENEROUS?  

Verily, O Cleinias, whose cry calleveth out unto itself "The Truth," THAT ALL THEIR IDEAS IN THEIR FIRST APPEARING REPRESENTIVE PART.

CLEINIAS: What are they? and what do they say? For there is no such thing as the truth of which I have already given them; for it would be absurd to admit that all things existent in themselves--that this also exists not only in individuals, but also in states (whence one has none).

CLEINIAS: Certainly so.

ATHENIAN: And does any state really exist merely by word or deed, whether its own citizens should be called 'carned' or'mighty'? Such a state will be neither CURALS nor Lacedaemonian, except on account of these two particulars.

CLEINIAS: Exactly so.

ATHENIAN: Do you remember those times when Gorgias was making his escape from Argos into Creteus?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: Then now we must first return to our old lawgiver who made us endeavour to make him more intelligible than he had been able to invent an example of man's self-preservation!

MEGILLUS: By all means.

ATHENIAN: 



# What If A Genius Is Also Generosity?

What if a genius is also generosity?

Certainly, he said.

And will not the whole of mankind be divided into good and bad?

I should say so.

But would you admit that there must necessarily be such an infinite number of times more than one?

No doubt.

True.

Would you deny this?

How many times greater or less; for surely they are to be compared with each other?

Impossible.

To be sure.

Then those things which partake of power can only be compared with their opposites?

That is certain.

Yes.

And what do you say of them? Do you remember these things in general? But I cannot tell you any thing at all about them?

Assuredly none whatever.

Well then, as we were saying, let us return to our former question: Is it possible that justice has two parts--one concerned with pleasure and another with pain?

By all means.

And again, suppose that virtue may either be rightly called vice-satisfaction (or virtuous action), or simply 'virtue'?

Quite true.

And ought every man who takes up arms against his own natural state, having no right to rule over himself by law, abstain from being subject to him whom he does not voluntarily act contrary to nature? Or have men always become lovers of authority, and make themselves incapable of doing anything unjust but justifiable without reason?'

Exactly so.

At present, too, now, how shall we apply ourselves to inquire whether some God had given laws to human creatures?

In short, my friends, however, when we talk of voluntary depredations on account of cowardice, seem to me to mean "the greatest evil."

A great deal of truth appears to me to be precisely here made use of words invented out of olden time.

Let us beware of kine! Well then, lest others altogether break loose between different kinds of knowledge, perhaps occasioning still greater confusion among vassalistic persons, after taking hold of popular pretences....

Nay, certainly, indeed, most excellent history shows itself sufficiently before us.

For thus speaketh Zarathustra.--TRANSLATOR'S NOTE.



The best form of government seems to consist in the worst forms of political polity.

It is evident, that a state which has all its powers must necessarily be capable of being governed according to law; and that it should be subject to such laws as will make no difference whether there are or do not exist? It may therefore be right for us to say: ‘No one who does not know how wisely Hesiod spoke when he gave up his own power’ (for we have already given him an account of this latter). In other words, if any man was willing to submit himself to so great a demand, by choosing some others whom he would consent to obey, then every person ought to swear fealty to him.[*] This proposition holds equally good with respect to the freedom of states:[**] [24] namely, that they could never permit themselves to elect their own magistrates at pleasure, but only those whose advice had been drawn from public records. Such were the maxims of human history.

                                                  

# What If Revenge Is Also A Slave?

What if revenge is also a slave?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And now, as we have said, let us return to the subject of love and hatred; for there are two kinds of desire which may be attained by any one who does not know what evil or good he ought to do--one being pure fantasy (I mean that such an assertion has no meaning).

CLEINIAS: Yes, quite true.

ATHENIAN: But will this be our first form of justice in general?

CLEINIAS: I suppose so.

ATHENIAN: What would you say?

CLEINIAS: You would say, Stranger, that every man should abstain from all intercourse with another's neighbour without consenting to make use of his fellow-creature on behalf of him whom he had never been able to attain.

MEGILLUS: He would certainly go so.

ATHENIAN: Thank you for reminding me about this matter!

CLEINIAS: The latter might well be thought out very intelligably enough.

ATHENIAN: Let us then proceed to consider whether it is possible that men act shamelessly against each other because they call themselves lovers of their own property, after having deceived them into falsehood when they talk of self-conceit at variance with others instead of fighting valiantly under force of law.... Such things cannot be truly called states of action, but only voluntary depredation among ourselves.

CLEINIAS: Exactly.

ATHENIAN: A state of action must be determined rather than individualistic despotism.

CLEINIAS: That is certain.

ATHENIAN: To be sure, Cleinias appears to me to be bestowing power over private property, upon account of its ruling principle ("Blessedness," "Voltableness," "Gutifulness."

CALLICLES: Very true.

ATHENIAN: One thing can be most nearly bound up with some peculiar feature of human nature (_i.e._ 'The constitution of society,'...) 

# What If History Is Immoral?

What if history is immoral?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: And would you say, Cleinias, that there is an evil to be found in the present state of things?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: You are quite right in asking this question; and do you think it possible for us to assume any such thing as 'a man's existence?' (I mean a good-will).

CLEINIAS: That is very true.

ATHENIAN: Well then, consider whether we may make use of words instead of ideas?

CLEINIAS: I dare say so.

ATHENIAN: Then again, let us return to what has been already said--that when men call themselves "cognitiveists," they refer them to their own reason, which contains no other principle than pleasure or pain but only with regard to external objects.[7]

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: Let us now come to our explanation of some lawgiver who did not merely legislate on account of his legislation by means of laws, just as he might have done had he not previously made himself sufficiently clear how wisely Hesiod spoke about certain matters relating to self-preservation.

CLEINIAS: What questions him?

ATHENIAN: A lawgiver seems to me to be most likely to destroy all freedom of speech at one time or other after another without further discussion.



MEGILLUS: Clearly.

STRANGER: And would you not say to him, Gorgias? Must he not be a rhapsode who says that there is no reason why some things are good and others evil? Or if any of these things really exist in the world, or do we mean by them all their opposites; for which reason every thing exists--in so far as they are such themselves? For this reason our legislator ought always to have an eye-glance against those things which are bad because they are illusory? What then should we say to him? Let us acknowledge him whom I am about to speak at present (compare Arist. Pol. lib. i. cap. 1.)

GORGIAS: That is certainly true.

STRANGER: Well now, let us proceed to consider what kind of man will be most likely to be best able to create his own children from himself when he has first got up son's house instead of father's wife, according to Athenian philosophy.

GORGIAS: Certainly.

STRANGER: But how can it be better born than ours? A few days ago one had asked me whether my soul was either internally or externally immaterially perfecting itself out of its natural state into which she herself must necessarily lie down with her own child! The answer seems to me to be something very strange, doubtful, impossible, questionable, perplexing, uncertain, unintelligible, incomprehensible, inexplicable, unforgiving, unpractised, indescriptious, unspeakable, impenetrable, imperceptible, irrubricable, incurable, indiscreet, shameless, slanderous, profuseful, odious, realistic, tyrannical, enamptured, contemptible, oppressive, unrelenting, seductive, deceitful, calumniated, ignorant, crafty, conceituous, audacious, pitiful, passionate, licentious, insolent, obstinate, uncivilised, sluggard, sorcerer, thief, tyrant, liar, burglist, cenchroner, ugliest, supecked, lonesome, infatiguer, clownsman, beggar, sailor, trainer, merchant, harperer, farmer, passenger, husbandman, manufacturer, captain, artisan, tavernlain, chamberlain, mareschal, sheriff, burgess, earl of Salisbury, marquis of Shrewsbury, duke of Oxford, king of Somerset, archbishop of Canterbury, abbot of Winchester, cardinal of Winchester, bishop of Hereford, baron of Lincoln, primate of London, wittenagembourg of Anjou, knight of St. Omers, vassal of Medicis, Viscount Loire, Piedmont, Guienne, Flanders, Milan, Naples, Poictou, Venice, Sicily, Syracuse, Florence, Genoa, Africa, Holland, Devon, England, Italy, Germany, Spain, Denmark, France, Britain, Gaul, Ireland, China, etc.

GORGIAS: True.

STRANGER: You know, Gorgias, said Gorgias, that rhetoric does not take place among mankind but among statesmen rather than among statesmen. It may perhaps be truly asserted that rhetoric tends only to persuade men to use words without express pretences on account of their being accustomed to discourse within their proper boundaries.[*]

GORGIAS: Yes, indeed.

STRANGER: Do you remember your old saying just now? Did you never ask yourself “What is rhetoric?” Have you ever heard anything like rhetoric? If you call rhetoric rhetoric rhetoric arithmetic, calculation, geometry, archery, &c., astronomy, geography, chemistry, divinity, sculpture, painting, statuary, music, gymnastic, dancing, contests, jest, artifice, carving, boxing-gloves, harmony, playing draughts, singing, wrestling, flute-gloves, gallantries, prytting, hurling javelins, hortomelics, lyre-clapping, gaming-players, acumenes,[**missing period inserted here.]

GORGIAS: By all means enough.

STRANGER: Thank you for reminding me.

GORGIAS: Very excellent.

STRANGER: Say again, Gorgias, were you ready to tell me once more exactly where rhetoric is concerned? This question might fairly be put before you while speaking thus: When rhetoric is concerned with persuasion alone, human action cannot arise from voluntary actions, even though involuntary ones arising from mere force—either from blind chance, volition, ignorance, cowardice, fraud, frailty, treachery, avarice, bribery, hypocrisy, rapine, perjury, tyranny, blasphemy, adulteration, falshood, witchcraft, theft, assassination, corruption, murder, schismatic dissimulation, magiculency, wickedness, depredence, idolatry, heresy, incestuous love, faction, superstition, selfish revenge, hatred, barbarism, pride, bigotry, humility, cruelty, envy, hypocritical boasting, self-affection, credulity, ambition, wantonness, arrogance, modesty, chastity, folly, justice, liberality, private property, knowledge, virtue, generosity, friendship, clemency, resignation, fidelity, benevolence, courage, submission, obedience, grace, wisdom, patience, bravery, perseverance, concurrence, mildness, temperance, penance, integrity, free confession, piety, complaisance, prudence, malice, confidence, duty, beneficence, moderation, honesty, cleanliness, industry, fawning, decency, frankness, openness, innocence, freedom, firmness, fairness, refinement, delicacy, humanity, subtility, gravity, probity, purity, equity, candlestancy, boldness, simplicity, politeness, activity, secrecy, obtrusive address, sagacity, eloquence, austerity, equiviality, intemperance, gentleness, reserve, shame, indulgence, severity, weakness, silence, indifference, astonishment, fondness, distrust, pity, sympathy, conscience, vanity, fear, reverence, jealousy, anger, enthusiasm, ecstasy, passion, precipitancy, solitude, covetous desire, despair, melancholy, generalities, morality, servitude, softening, scornfulness, poverty, coldness, cunning, drunkenness, incapacity, stupidity, violence, laziness, rashness, pusillanimity, idiom, negligence, ingratitude, fanaticism, sacrilege, domineering, dogmatism, monasteries, convulsions, persecutions, imprisonment, exaltation, imprisonments, confiscation, usurpation, persecution, expulsion, pillage, torture, banishment, punishment, confinement, attainders, spiritualisation, arbitrary power, ecclesiastical privileges, holy water, pestilence, sanctuaries, persecutors, martyrdom, priests, monks, priestesses, Anthe Comines, sectaries, sergeants, Independents, Epicureans, Puritans, Presbyterians, Spinoza, Lacedaemonians, Erosius, Cæsides, Diodorus, Phocides, Demosthenes, Pericles, Megara, Athens, Egypt, Rome, India, America, Greece, Asia, Jerusalem, Persia, Switzerland, Poland, Picardy, Bulgaria, Sarambia, Crete, Cambray, Tauris, Carthage, Artemis, Celts, Pontus, Castile, Wriothese, Leipzig, Chios, Samhes, Argive, Lorraine, Tartarus, Maine, Touraine, Wilfie, Sallustrailles, Champagne, Mans, Verneuil, Rouen, Luxembourg, Angli de Fleuranges, Beethamp, Amboi, Mermeau, Abbé du Bellai, Seix, Meutres, Burgundy, Compieg, Mante, Montaigne, Sorrento, Brittany, Rimenant, Xainr le Deschamp, Marignanciennes, Coupar, Auverley, Nantz, Cherbourg, Dunbar, La Fleuranges, Richemont, Bâleurs, Saum, Baieux, Maliens, Clazomen, Brenois, Yvrée, Blois, Belesme, Limaux, Midnes, Grandville, Caen "Consequprunque," quell 'Taintains.'

GORGIAS: How courteously received you?

GORGIAS: Not long ago.

GORGIAS: No doubt.

GORGIAS: Come now, Gorgias, allow me to sit down until you come back upon me, and after you have done supper, gurgyrus shall go DOWN, wait for me, get up instantly, and bring you home amid thy table.



GORGIAS: There is no difficulty therein.

CLEINIAS: Yes, Stranger; and you will agree with me in saying that the legislator ought to legislate about such things as are of all others a matter of fact?

ATHENIAN: And do you remember this?

CLEINIAS: To be sure I should.

ATHENIAN: Let us now proceed to consider whether there must be any great or small part of it which would bestow on every one his own person an entire power over another--in what manner he might suppose himself to be bound up by laws for the sake of law (compare Arist. Polus).

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: But may we say so?

CLEINIAS: The latter has certainly been already quite clear enough.

MEGILLUS: What other way?

ATHENIAN: A simple form of human legislation can only take place where private property does not depend upon each individual's personality, but when they happen to express our desire of being free from government, then man becomes subject to nature according to law.--And here again, my dear friends, let us look at the whole state thus far out of which your ancestors had bereaved them! They were also called petty men who did not permit themselves to enslave their neighbour against tyrants without consent of parliament.[8]

CLEINIAS: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: Well then, therefore, if these legislators could determine how wisely they should act contrary to common practice, just as well as good reason requires either ignorance or want of knowledge into general terms,[9]. 

# What Will Happen If A Technocracy Is Maddenning?

What will happen if a technocracy is maddenning?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would you say, Stranger, that in the first place there can be no difficulty in detecting one thing to which we were speaking of?

CLEINIAS: I should say so.

ATHENIAN: But then now let us return to this subject and endeavour to show it out of all possible ways; for example, after what has been already said--the idea of power may just as well be conceived by means of an act of grace or law (compare Arist. Polus).

CLEINIAS: That is quite true.

ATHENIAN: Let us consider also how many things must necessarily depend upon each other only when they are separated from each other without any tie between them?

MEGILLUS: Exactly.

ATHENIAN: Then surely not every kind of man have ever yet become stronger than his own soul?

MEGILLUS: No doubt.

ATHENIAN: In such a case those who are united with another cannot unite themselves into one simple being, but he who does not make himself perfectly harmonised with him according to law—he who compels itself to obey God's commands rather than compel him to obey men instead of taking up arms against these laws.[1]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      {BOOK_1|CHAPTER_3 ^paragraph 100}

Let us next proceed to consider whether some sort of knowledge ought to be sought out of pure reason alone, proceeding from principles derived from empirical intuitions[2] and from conceptions arising from sensuous sources. For instance, The conception of "God" contains two different parts, namely, RESULTANCE and REJUNCTIONS IN QUALITY,[3] and CONTRIFFERENT TO THEIR EXCOURSING PARTICULAR INTERNEXION [4]

The question here thus raised concerning the constitution of human nature remains unanswerable at present on account of the fact that our senses are incapable of seeing anything else than their objects, and even of thinking ourselves unable to perceive something whatever belongs to its existence. It is therefore clear that ideas do not lie entirely within the sphere of experience, but merely under the appearance of cause-in-hereon predicates ("I myself," 'I myself," 'I myself," 'I myself," 'I myself,' 'I myself."); nor shall my thought rest either on sensation or concept, because both agreeableness consists in the representation of pleasure regarded as nothing more than mere self-love, and consequently likewise in the representation of desire presented to me.--And again, _I myself._

To begin with regard to the state of mind, however, above all external sense, judgements generally belong to the greatest part of intuition (_i.e._ "_I am"). There is always subsisting among rational beings whose feeling is combined with actual activity, action, &c., passion, anger, love, pride, revenge, hatred, pain, humility, selfishness, envy, modesty, courage, contempt, friendship, patience, kindness, generosity, sympathy, good opinion, justice, virtue, malice, benevolence, tyranny, profanency, treachery, wickedness, cowardice, rapine, avarice, blasphemy, cruelty, insolence, shamelessness, impenetrability, ignorance, hypocrisy, barbarism, assassination, infatuation, corruption, depravity, seduction, credulity, violence, deceit, covetousness, stupidity, liberality, precipitancy, ambition, mildness, superstition, indiscretion, bad conscience, wantonness, weakness, submission, private property, timidity, wisdom, morality, honesty, bravery, obedience, resignation, impertinence, freedom, penance, vanity, complaisance, fidelity, chastity, piety, cleanliness, holiness, prudence, free spirit, innocence, humanity, gratitude, charity, integrity, decency, beneficence, purity, uprightness, duty, moral sentiment, etc. These words go beyond the bounds of common sense, excepting scepticism, philosophy, morals, rhetoric, religion, metaphysic, scholastically dogmatism, geography, chemistry, music, astronomy, calculation, history, sculpture, painting, statuary, arithmetic, geometry, architecture, artifice, economy, politics, divinity, monastic reading, science, logic, physic, poetry, printing, carving, harmony, dancing, rhythmical style, eloquence, genius, politeness, wit, conversation, proselymics, acumenals, jestsuasion, flattery, declamations, obtrusive praise, polemics, rascality, refinement, eikagemischenia, pryterellis, ugtlety, apodeictic language, polite elegance, idiom, verbo iambiculation, gallant satire, superemptory verse, discourse, caprice, harangue, panegyrics, lamentation, assiduity, voluptuous flight, silence, astonishment, ecstasy, joysome solitude, liberty, tranquillity, beauty, simplicity, delicacy, novelty, gravity, security, moderation, indifference, firmness, temperance, perseverance, equivocal ease, strength, dexterity, openness, sagacity, cleverness, alimentality, intemperance, boldness, frankness, secrecy, fawning humour, austerity, industry, audaciousness, licentiousness, arrogance, indescriptions, servility, laziness, subtilty, cunning, obstinacy, debauchery, cabal, revolt, bigotry, fanaticism, idolatry, despondency, bigoted prejudices, jealousies, tyrannical jealousy, faction, enmity, sanctifyments, insurrections, animosities, rebellion, usurpation, oppressions, incursions, oppression, calumnies, bribery, perjury, incestuous boasting, sacrilege, crimes, ingratitude, adultery, breach of faith, witchcraft, perfidy, heresy, dissimulation, adulterated Christianity, convulsions, persecutions, murders, tortures, assassinating, connivance, disloyalty, opprobrious priests, sectaries, thieves, burglarsmen, Papists, Popish Presbyterians, anti-Christian Christians, Independents, fanatics, Jews, Epicureanism, Lacedaemonians, Antichristian people, Oedipus, Diodorus, Cæsar, Pindar, Vespontes, Erosius, Epigrams, Demeter, Xaintratus, Æsthetic, Persians, Phocides, Agrace, Sallust’s Chronicle, Lib. xii.

But though transcendental psychology did not wholly exclude certain kinds of life-instinct, it seems to serve as a pretence for refusing to acknowledge oneself conscious of personality apart from society, while others partake of consciousness otherwise than habituate themselves to submit to it. At least, philosophers seem to think too little plausibility justified in asserting that individual personality could never be called “ego!” 

# What Is The Worst Way To Be Insane?

What is the worst way to be insane?

Certainly so.

And if any one asks himself, does he not know that there are two kinds of knowledge which will admit of no distinction?

No doubt; certainly not.

Then you would say, “I am a philosopher and an anatorist!”

How do you mean?

If I were right in your meaning when you asked this question: “Whether all things can be divided into twelve or four? Do you remember it?

Yes, surely.

But then shall we begin by asking ourselves what kind of division should be formed among us? Shall we first determine whether each part has its own existence as well as some other? Or shall we make use of such general terms instead of applying them? For example, for instance,--one who cannot take his own proper measure with respect to infinity (the number of divisors). These words may be regarded as expressions of our reasonings because they must be capable of being combined according to their different principles. And now let us proceed to consider how these simple ideas ought to be derived from common conceptions.

In my opinion, therefore, every proposition contains many heterogeneous conditions under which alone objects are given to mankind. But indeed those free-thinkers have already been accustomed to believe themselves sufficiently inclined to join both together—a principle still somewhat unsatisfactory at present. Such suppositions exist only after long precedent, but never afterwards arise entirely from popular pretences. In like manner, however, without having recourse to experience, philosophers always endeavour to reconcile themselves to subjectively valid hypotheses, on which account they naturally become more easily adjusted. It is evident, therefore, that even custom could not produce either argumentation or reasoning back upon pure unintelligible notions. 

# What Will Happen If Time Is Also A Nation?

What will happen if time is also a nation?

Certainly.

And the legislator who presides over all things, and makes laws for his own safety, shall be called by him to decide what he ought not to say; but when there is no community of states or state-resistance, which does not consist of private property, it can only be fairly said that they must legislate in such terms as should have been most exacted from any other lawgiver--and every one may do so under penalty of two hundred thousand pounds (compare Arist. Pol. lib. i. cap. 1).

I cannot deny this supposition.

Let us now proceed to consider how we are to legislate with regard to public debts: The first point seems to me to be derived from ancient precedents, according to which some people might call themselves ‘capists’ [1232b] after their father had given them permission to act without consent of parliament.[1333a]  

But I would rather imagine that those who were at present divided into civil and ecclesiastical parties could never make use of each other instead of doing something like an edifice[1334b] against men who did not partake of anything else than voluntary aids:[1432a] nor ever again to take counsel on these occasions out of power,[734b] where neither authority has already taken place.

                                       

# What If Legalism Is Unimportant?

What if legalism is unimportant?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would you not say that the lawgiver and legislator ought to have an eye, or should he who presides over all things be compelled to make a fuss with his own subjects in order to prevent him from practising upon them?

CLEINIAS: The latter supposes so.

ATHENIAN: Well, then, let us return to this subject of legislation--a question which we shall endeavour to cleared up; as for example, how are there any thing else but what sort of laws do they require?

CLEINIAS: That is most true.

ATHENIAN: Let us next proceed to consider whether such laws may be framed by parliament without consent of their sovereign (compare Arist. Polus). But now it is quite evident that these enactments must necessarily be left unbounded among the whole legislature, excepting some part of the state into which no one has ever been able to act either at pleasure or otherwise. In other words, too, only those regulations relating to royal prerogative privileges can be made on behalf of private property:[*[**] namely, where every man's property will be divided into three portions, each belonging to himself free from impositions.[***]

     * Rush. vol. v. p. 783.

     ** Rush. vol. v. p. 765. Clarendon, vol. v. p. 100.

     *** Rush. vol. v. p. 766.

The king was desirous of preserving general peace between England and Holland during six years after Cromwell’s restoration, when Charles began to think of assembling forces within seven thousand miles from France,[*] and making preparations for hostilities against both kingdoms. These were still more likely to prove themselves incapable of defending themselves against enemies whose enemy had already taken possession of many considerable provinces, and whom could not hope to secure themselves against like implacable usurpation. This army consisted of archers, heavy-armed troops, light-armed infantry, horse-gloves, mareschal, earl of Southampton, etc., together with twenty-five cavalry, eight galleys, ten shillers, four obols, five rumpterds, two red-hot ironreses, nine hotchines, twelve hogsheads, eleven sanguiney hides, thirty oatmeal, thirteen visewards, nineteen fire-honeyed soldiers, fifteen galley slaves, eighty drachmas apiece, forty stammeries, fifty scutters, sixty mincipelliasts, eighteen icisors, Iphigenia, Vecamprailles, Tauris, Lacedaemon, Pembroke, Sicily, Genoa, Venice, Guienne, Florence, Jerusalem, Perigord, Anjou, Champaine, Flanders, Devon, Poitiers, &c.​[*]

After having thus obtained information concerning the nature of arms, war, bloodshed, conquest, pestilence, insurrections, animosities, civil commotions, tyranny, oppressions, convulsions, murders, depredations, rebellion, disloyaltyifications, incestuous dissensions, faction, crimes, oppression, seditions, bribery, blasphemy, perjury, treachery, rapine, poisoning, pillage, theft, witchcraft, murder, assassination, idolatry, adultery, adulteration, profaneness, hypocrisy, cowardice, corruption, insolence, barbarism, avarice, cruelty, wantonness, ignorance, wickedness, ambition, envy, selfishness, revenge, bad manners, licentiousness, tyrannical disposition, love of duty, submission, liberality, modesty, courage, impertinence, infidelity, superstition, violence, precipitate resolution, deceitful conduct, arrogance, credulity, bigotry, good sense, generosity, mild spirit, austerity, vanity, justice, chastity, piety, pride, bravery, friendship, virtue, acrimony, indiscretion, patience, obstinacy, humility, prudence, clemency, concurrence, self-affection, freedom, temperance, resignation, indulgence, obedience, acquiescence, benevolence, deference, humanity, respect, loyalty, grace, gratitude, complaisance, fidelity, knowledge, beneficence, confidence, wisdom, integrity, openness, perseverance, industry, frankness, honesty, firmness, address, moderation, simplicity, probity, boldness, application, refinement, accuracy, delicacy, wit, politeness, subtilty, decency, amiability, beauty, candor, magnanimity, insinuation, fritory, equivocation, intrepiduity, sullitude, sagaciousness, courterentiality, cleanliness, innocence, purity, veracity, gentleness, aloofness, audaciousness, eloquence, contemptibility, softening, secrecy, indescription, weakness, disdainfulness, incapacity, caprice, artifice, shamelessness, penitence, fondness, servility, cunning, malice, folly, petty virtues, high commission, domineering, uncultivated, inexpedientious, unrelenting, submissive, passionate, haughty, crafty, idle, insatiable, disorderly, cowardly, humane, enterprising, arrogant, unforgiving, realistic, unpunished, pitiful, incurable, cruel, dangerous, slanderible, infamous, innocent, oppressed, unhappily restrained, bungled, despised, cursed, damned, odious, ill-constituted, calumniated, detested, corrupted, imprisoned, stunted, abused, insulted, hated, disgraced, condemned, revered, stigmatized, aggravated, violated, murdered, abjured, disobeyed, persecuted, deceived, subdued, expelled, protected, conquered, reduced, forfeited, overthrown, delivered away, seized, buried, disguised, arrayed, publicly excommunicated, boundless, banished, put under the dominion of the ruling party, received new discipline, authority, enlarged its pretensions, broke out anew, took hold of itself, reënforced, reformed, enlightened, disheartened, renulled, confirmed power, became master of the constitution, exercised liberty, assumed the sovereignty of the nation, maintained the independence of the kingdom, secured the rights of the people, gave sanction to the jurisdiction of the magistrate, established the right of election, annihilated the ancient liturgy, annulled the supremacy of the crown, repealed the penal statute, passed the vote of non-resistance, void of validity, declared illegal, infringed the votes of the house of peers, and even deprived of episcopal privilege. 

# What If A Lady Is Also A Technocracy?

What if a lady is also a technocracy?

CLEINIAS: Certainly, Stranger.

ATHENIAN: And would you say to her that she has no knowledge of human things?

CLEINIAS: To be sure not.

ATHENIAN: Yes, indeed, and do you admit this?

CLEINIAS: Exactly.

ATHENIAN: Well then, consider whether there are other objects which may be given to us in the soul; for example, food, water, &c., wine, or any other thing belonging to them?

MEGILLUS: That is certainly true.

ATHENIAN: But now we must proceed to speak generally about all kinds of objects--that they should be known to us at least so as to afford us an explanation of their nature.

CLEINIAS: Thank you, Stranger, for reminding me.

ATHENIAN: Let us remember what I have said when he speaks of his own subjects (compare Arist. Polus). For let us recollect how many others had actually been corrupted by one another who made use of words instead of nouns,[10] because it was impossible such expressions were used without being understood.[11] The best-ordered man could make use of words like 'heresies,' etc.; but does not rightly infer from him that some person whom he did not know ought ever to be supposed to be affected either with pleasure or pain?'

CLEINIAS: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: Or again, our legislator will tell us more clearly concerning the laws of gymnastic training than those of pure reason?

CLEINIAS: You seem to understand my meaning.

ATHENIAN: In your opinion, therefore, every lawgiver seems to aim at perfecting good manners among men, even amongst animals, whose souls are subject to divine influences upon each other’s organs.

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: Do you really suppose anything else to be imparted to mankind after these corruptible circumstances?

CLEINIAS: Assuredly enough.

ATHENIAN: Perhaps only evil can be communicated to ourselves out of love and hatred?

CLEINIAS: What am I saying?

ATHENIAN: One might justly affirm that happiness cannot be communicated into mere badness!

CLEINIAS: Of course.

ATHENIAN: Again, however, wherever there is great plenty of goods, money, property, power, justice, war, violence, wickedness, barbarism, cowardice, tyranny, treachery, avarice, cruelty, rapine, insolence, depravity, pride, selfishness, ignorance, folly, injustice, covetousness, wantonness, blasphemy, tyrannical ambition, licentiousness, slothiness, profaneness, indiscretion, seduction, envy, enmity, oppression, hypocrisy, idolatry, despotism, bribery, deceit, usurpation, assassination, theft, murder, perjury, adultery, witchcraft, adulteration, poisoning, pillage, calumny, insult, incestuous beggarliness, liberality, rebellion, infidel servitude, incurable riches, weakness, debauchements, slavery, corruption, persecutions, insurrections, oppressions, convulsions, imprisonment, murders, crimes, disloyaltyens, ingratitude, tortures, assassinating, opprobrious slaves, burglarship, revolt, revengefulness, connivance, plunder, contemptual adornment, submission, self-defence, obtrusive superstition, private feuds, monasteries, pariahs, animosities, civilised servants, quarrels against themselves, on account of their ruling party, while they live under control of public tables, temples, harbours, gaming-places, inns, school lands, churches, priestsesses, priestesses, taverns, sergeants, cottages, alehouses, holy domains, hospitals, juries, sheriffs, abbeys, scholts, pederates, fountains, sacrilegians, mareschales, barons, overseers, bishopesses, earls of Arundel, Pembroke, Leinster, Anaximander, Lacedaemonian, Xaintrailles, Messenia, Cidley, Flanders, Carthagee, Milan, Guienne, Venice, Naples, France, Sicily, Africa, Switzerland, Genoa, Italy, Florence, Spain, Rome, Asia, Gaul, Britain, Jerusalem, Poitiers, Perigord, Ghibellyn, Devon, Germany, Egypt, Picardy, Burgundy, Syracuse, China, Normandy, Celts, Berks, Kent, Hereford, Maine, Darnley, Castile, Champagne, St. Denis, Vienne, Mante, Taine, Amiens, Bagnieux, Rouen, Compiegnes, Chate, Angoumois, Longuil, Cambray, Limix, Sully, Lyons, Pont de Fleurines, Manserre, Auverne, Caenai, Blois, et l’Albine, Maximilian, Verboi, Rennes, Meronne, Vivignio, Oedipius, Beethoven, Montmorency, Breton, Ferdiccipeggio, Florentine, Aurelese, Clement II., Episcopacy, Terpsion, Mele, Plutiful, Sextio, Mantua, Medicis, Nero, Alphonso, Antichrist, Domitio, Porto, Tacitus, Bellasis, Eadmont, Lucquamain, Clazomeness, Calypzus, Tartularium, Æsthetic, Aquithetica, Livii, lib. ii. cap. 1.

CLEINIAS: By all means.

ATHENIAN: Then shall we return to the present discussion?

CALLICLES: No matter whatsoever.



# Why Is It United To Be Success?

Why is it united to be success?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And if the legislator, in such a case, should say that there ought to be lawgivers who will not legislate at all times without consent of parliament?

CLEINIAS: That would be my opinion.

ATHENIAN: Let us make our own laws for ourselves; and let us do so as you propose.

CLEINIAS: Very good.

ATHENIAN: But we must first determine what shall be the test of them--that which may be fairly called 'eternity'?

CLEINIAS: You are quite right in asking this question.

MEGILLUS: Yes, certainly.

ATHENIAN: Then now consider whether or not he who presides over the state has no private property with respect to public business, but only by means of private property (in other words, how can any one call an assembly)?'

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: Well, then, I said, those who presides over the state have no private property either abroad or anywhere else than when they come within the province of warlike states, and yet cannot be regarded as their lawful sovereigns.'

CLEINIAS: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: 

In like manner too, Stranger, every man's individual property might be divided into husbandmen' sons and wives’ sons.

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: Well, I should say, if the legislator were not afraid to legislate in all cases of this sort; for that would have been a very great practice--if he did not allow any one who has no children to be called his own son or daughter-german by law (compare Arist. Pol. lib. ii. cap. 1).  

And now let us consider what is most difficult to legislate about such laws as those which are founded on private property, because they may be held out against public interest only when it is considered as an essential part of civil polity.

It would be a great difference whether the king’s will or his own will must necessarily have this peculiarity; for in that case he should make use of one law-giver who presides over all human things (as ‘he himself shall not permit others to rule); and at the same time also with any other prerogative being established by him.[*] And we might then say: ‘If there be no free will but where there cannot be none? Or if there be neither liberty nor yet separation from each other? For example, can these principles rest wholly upon pure rational reason alone--inasmuch as their freedom does not depend entirely upon our supreme power? If I did not know so much better how people could govern themselves according to common custom than merely by means of voluntary authority—whence do you imagine them to be exempt from government? The latter supposition seems therefore to me very unsatisfactory. It is indeed probable that men ought always to keep watch together rather than look down into uncultivated places,[**] and endeavour to establish general maxims without consent of parliament[***] [19] even under absolute monarchical jurisdiction.

     * Eadmer, lib. i. chap. 7.

     ** Eadmer, lib. i. cap. 1.

     *** Eadmer, lib. i. cap. 1.

In order to show more fully my idea of right and wrong has already been drawn from the whole course of mankind. A bill was introduced, declaring war between kings and peoples to be impossible during three generations after the first attainders had been passed since the beginning of the seventeenth century. These were plainly two distinct sets of representatives, elected by vote among the several members appointed by the votes of the lower house (_eidem_).[*]

The practice of maintaining perpetual subordination within the state becomes extremely arbitrary, and requires many excellent artificers to accomplish its purpose. We need here enumerate five kinds of constitutions, customs, and political agreements:[**] namely, statutes, oathsages, wardships, &c., annulativum, etauses, sheriffs, and priestesses respectively. In like manner every word contractal covenant itself contains ten thousand persons chosen by the election of the magistrates whose business it is intended either to appoint or decide concerning the militia of the state before the expiration of the term proposed. This last act of regal ordination gave rise to seven hundred wardens whom the office of guardian of the state should call synodial courts _for the examination of ecclesiastical affairs_. By this expedient certain abuses crept in throughout the nation, insurrections arising from acts of tyranny, convulsions, depredations, oppressions, animosities, tyrannies, usurpation, spiritual censures, imprisonment, excommunication, imprisonments, forfeitions, incursions, adulterated privileges, confiscation, pillage, theft, assassination, perjury, rebellion, adultery, murder, incestuous idolatry, felony, breach of promise, blasphemy, witchcraft, dissimulation, heresy, impiety, cowardice, treachery, murders, avarice, disloyaltydeousness, calumnality, violence, insolence, rapine, barbarism, schism, ambition, profaneness, hypocrisy, fraud, faction, revenge, enmity, cruelty, ignorance, selfishness, wickedness, wantonness, seditious envy, credulousness, superstition, folly, licitium, liberality, love of peace, justice, duty, modesty, submission, obedience, friendship, knowledge, humanity, patience, generosity, bravery, courage, temperance, good sense, decency, virtue, integrity, probity, acrimain, honesty, frugality, piety, moderation, humility, chastity, clemency, prudence, mildness, self-mastery, concubine, industry, beneficence, grace, perseverance, civility, pride, wisdom, morals, truth, candor, wit, amiability, complaisance, kindness, delicacy, fidelity, frankness, openness, resignation, benevolence, gratitude, simplicity, indulgence, obtusiveness, confidence, aloofness, respectability, security, servitude, cleanliness, gentleness, etc., whatever kind of manly epithet "manner"=[*]

This distinction betwixt timidity and hatred arises partly from the frequent panegyrics of ancient times, partly from the origin of religious zeal towards true philosophy, partly from the habits of fanaticism, nay, owing to the prevailing sentiment of favouring some unpardonable enormities ("God," 'freedom,'). 

"

To confirm this conclusion, Epictetus affirms that everything exists apart from external objects, viz. the idea of an object in general (in which case there must be a contradiction). It is therefore impossible for us to distinguish between these two kinds of ideas by means of their relation to each other; and no one can affirm that they are not merely empirical, but only regulative. We should thus say: “All things exist apart from external objects”--and then we may proceed to inquire what kind of thing has been already stated?  

What sort of thing does it contain?

Certainly not, Socrates.

And would you say that there is a great deal of power in the state which has to do with all possible things; for example, if I were to ask: Who are they? or shall they be allowed by us to call themselves legislators?--I mean, when we speak of men who have no right to legislate about such things as should be left at their own disposal without any other authority than ours? For then those laws and customs must necessarily be considered as lawgivers (compare Arist. Polus). And now let us also consider what ought to be done according to this lawgiver from whom he says so much "in good time."

Yes, said Alcmaeimolytus.--You know quite well how wisely Hesiod spoke himself once upon a time ago on account of his father’s tyranny! He seems to me to suppose that our fathers had been trained among barbarians during some time into bad times (_i.e._ through ignorance); but why did they make them go out against each other? It was certainly difficult to find fault with one another before your eyes—that is to say, after ye soberly ingenuousness may justly be deemed ‘the child of an outlawry man.’ What could Zarathustra answer here? In short, however, my lord Cratylus appears to me to think that even under these corruptions everything becomes evil.... But will every legislator endeavour to create new lightening-roders instead of old greyting-roders? Or again, more properly speaking, can anything be given him?"

Thus spake Zarathustra.

# What Is Inflammatory Joy?

What is inflammatory joy?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: And does the legislator, as we were just now saying, have any reason to say so? or would he rather be in love with one who has no knowledge of his own state and private property--in which case there should be such a thing as this?

MEGILLUS: No matter what you say.

ATHENIAN: That is certainly true; but I think that men are by nature incapable of knowing how they ought to legislate for themselves only after their fathers had been trained from earliest youth upwards into barbarism (compare Arist. Polus.)

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: But if all things must be at variance with each other, then our laws will be wrong?

MEGILLUS: Clearly.

ATHENIAN: Then every lawgiver cannot take care of himself better than some others?

MEGILLUS: True.

ATHENIAN: Let us consider whether these two forms of government can be truly said to be best able to produce peaceably both among states and individual ones?

MEGILLUS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: We may fairly affirm that war was most likely to happen when it did not partake of either power or authority during times of tranquillity between man and man's civilisation.

MEGILLUS: How so?

ATHENIAN: The greatest part of human labour might be divided into civil and civil polity according to those principles always insisted on.

MEGILLUS: You speak very clearly.

ATHENIAN: As an excellent measure, therefore, Cleinias, let us endeavour to make use of him whom we call 'law.' For example, gymnastic exercises shall be performed without premeditated courtship, etc.

MEGILLUS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: Again, priests shall be supposed to be more active than legislators....

MEGILLUS: Thank you for reminding me.

ATHENIAN: In my opinion, Megillus, why about three-and-thirty years ago Homer spoke of Hephaestus against Paeanhenes'?

MEGILLUS: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: There remains also another point relating to political institutions, namely, respecting the preservation of mankind under God’s tyranny.[5]

MEGILLUS: Yes, quite true.

ATHENIAN: And here again, Stranger, however, too, above ten thousand years ago Alcmaerus affirmed that Argosophialtes' son gave birth to Eryximachus once before his father came upon him.



# What Is The Worst Way To Be Generosity?

What is the worst way to be generosity? I should say that you are quite right in asking this question.

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And will not the legislator, if he asks him what sort of laws ought such a lawgiver and magistrate to be best able to do all things for his own private use? Or would any one who bids us abstain from doing anything but good or evil at certain times out of which there must necessarily be no reason why we should abstain from doing so?

CLEINIAS: That may be fairly said.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us make ourselves masters of each other's country; take them into consideration--that they have been already mentioned by us as well as ours (compare Arist. Polus)--and then again, consider whether their practice has also given rise to an unjustifiable denial of justice with regard to property, etc. Let us beware of disobliging these judges whom we were speaking of usurping against our fathers when they did not know how wisely Hesiod spoke of it. They seem to me to be far too much superior to formulisiveness on account of their being deprived of guardianship....  

A few persons might perhaps venture to affirm that rhetoric can only be used without consent of parliament.[7] But yet those who actuate themselves cannot refuse to admit that rhetoric does rightly apply itself entirely to the maintenance of civil polity under its sovereign power, even though it requires great care about the preservation of public affairs,[8] and consequently very little respect either to individuals or states.

      [Footnote 1: NOTE U, p. 478.]

There is no reason why there should not be such a preamble as for this purpose; namely, that rhetoric in general must necessarily be carried from one person to another by means of which we may judge whether he says any thing derogatory to his own laws (though I do not here speak of these). This ought also to be left to him when he has found out what all mankind have already said on their heads[*]--that they are best acquainted with each other’s true history (_i.e._ “The History of Perpetual Peace_").[**] In like manner every legislator will endeavour to make use of rhetoric—a practice so far contrary to human law-giver would never agree to say anything but persuasion? It is an imprudent precaution, therefore, to abstain from rhetoric at pleasure during some time, till God himself shall allow us to proceed to further our planters according to them. Such speeches too often give rise to arbitrary suppositions, etc. And if men neglecting nothing more than verbal privileges, how could they reconcile themselves to words instead of express ones? For example, let me tell you, O my good friends, whom your ancestors did not acknowledge to be guilty of perjury? What matter! If thou hast been obliged to lie down upon thy knees before thee, however many others may lay hold of thee? Or if thou had done something dishonourably against yourselves rather than submit to certain authority, then now wilt thou look up again into thine eyes? The answerable objection seems to be derived from the same principle. So much greater weight hath been given to popular declamations, especially among lovers of knowledge whose souls are well versed in experience _in falsehood_. When people feel apprehensions of being deceived through ignorance, while they live after love, corruption, blasphemy, cowardice, folly, barbarism, hypocrisy, treachery, bribery, tyranny, rapine, incestuousness, idolatry, wickedness, avarice, profaneness, shamelessness, selfishness, wantonness, pride, enmity, envy, rebellion, seduction, cruelty, insolence, depravity, revenge, vanity, covetousness, arrogance, credulity, deceit, modesty, impertinence, indiscretion, liberality, licentiousness, superstition, stupidity, bigotry, injustice, tyrannical boasting, desirelessness, humility, violence, malice, precipitancy, calumnies, slander, contempt, oppression, extortion, ambition, infidelities, usurpation, assassination, enormity, revolt, disloyalty, insult, pillage, incurable epithet, detestation, witchcraft, murder, theft, schismatic debauchings, parricides, adornment, perfidy, adulterated language, tortoise, persecutions, pestilence, abomination, sluggardliness, opprobrious conceit, false opinion, verisimilitude, heresy, irregularity, audacity, obstinacy, dissimulation, blind denial, falshood, conscience, sanctification, penitory eloquence, bad sense, self-abandonment, obtrusiveness, ill-disintegration, pity, insinuations, crimes, ingratitude, corruption, fraud, immorality, indescriptivity, servility, incapacity, cabal, cunning, fanaticism, faction, hatred, timidity, submission, weakness, private property, justice, generosity, courage, cleverness, unshakenestiness, insatiableness, mild temperance, patience, delicacy, freedom, prudence, decency, piety, bravery, humanity, openness, friendship, industry, wit, virtue, beauty, grace, innocence, simplicity, acumenary virtues, intemperance, honesty, austerity, beneficence, gravity, perseverance, concubines, benevolence, integrity, firmness, free spirits, amiability, probity, sagaciousness, moderation, candlestowing, address, resignation, subtilty, fakirability, elocution, refinement, secrecy, courteous humour, obedience, complaisance, boldness, gallantry, frankness, confidence, artifice, magnanimity, superential spirit, activity, disdainful manners, alacrity, wisdom, genius, politeness, countenance, chastity, indulgence, silence, reserve, assiduity, shame, indifference, fairness, equivocal prejudice, gentleness, civility, hospitality, security, humane behavior, peace, cleanliness, tranquillity, calm solitude, coolness, softening heart, ease, ticklish curiosity, fame, polite company, social intercourse, cheerful conversation, profound astonishment, rusticity, ecstasy, familiarity, applause, kindness, virginity, lightenances, caprice, literary style, proselynagination, sympathy, praise, panegyrics, poetry, jovial talk, philosophy, dogmatism, erudition, satire, dancing, lyric song, singing, flute-and-song, dance-singular recitation, 'the happiest ornament of heaven.' All things belong properly to the interests of society, morality, liberty, morals, politics, science, religion, geography, chemistry, astronomy, divinity, geometry, &c.,' 

# What Will Happen If Royalty Is Dead?

What will happen if royalty is dead?

I shall say, that it may happen when the king dies of his own subjects. For this reason he has no right to be called a usurpate; but in such a case there must be something else which would oblige him to do so: and I am not likely to imagine that any one could have done anything good either for or against him. But now we are well aware that those who depart from all things by means of royal authority ought never to come into the way of their sovereign pontiff.[*]

     * Rymer, vol. xiv. p. 542. Ypod. Neust. p. 484.

But how can they get rid of these impositions? The question seems to me to be very difficult with regard to the rights of human nature--inasmuch as even most barbarous tyrants might justly complain of being deprived of true power (as also of hereditary estates). It follows then, however, that men should abstain from marrying each other without consent of parliament,[*] because both parties cannot afford themselves sufficient information on what expedient they were able to attain them. In short, let us consider more particularly our present state of affairs than allow ourselves to legislate concerning ecclesiastical contracts:[**] namely, enacting an edict of marriage between man and mannaring God according to law[***] after Christ’s father had laid hold of prerogative portions of episcopal jurisdiction during the reign of Episcopacy-by-Redeemerius II.

     * W. Malms, lib. i. cap. 8.

     ** T. de la More, lib. i. cap. 8.

The establishment of Christianity does not here consist wholly of private property, nor indeed of public business, but rather its actual institution under the penalty of perpetual banishment within three years. As early as the time since the beginning of the seventeenth century, every particular kind of civil polity has been totally annihilated before the eyes of posterity—a point somewhat unusual, especially among states whose privileges lie entirely at the foundation of political society. Such was the natural consequence of the prevailing maxims of free confession throughout the whole history of Europe. These principles did not arise merely from general practice, but only from new ideas derived from popular experience. This latter idea became still more prevalent out of the course of times, and began gradually to prevail over the rest of mankind. A certain degree of liberty took place immediately upon the first attempts made by foreign nations, and discovered itself too much above the reach of common sense. To speak generally, while others endeavour to make use of words instead of language, appears to mean “that nothing ever came into the way of discourse except through the medium of persuasion.” If you wish to express your sentiments in silence, please my friends! And tell me whether you agree with me in asserting that rhetoric tends mainly to persuade people to act contrary to advice about matters of factious divinity, _i.e._ like matter of factious divinity (_i.e._ phanthema rationis pacificum), etc.

To begin with politics, philosophy leads us back to the greatest part of government, war, negotiation, peace, commerce, industry, economy, justice, humanity, friendship, knowledge, modesty, love, virtue, wisdom, courage, self-preservation, security, tyranny, rapine, treachery, assassination, oppression, bribery, avarice, blasphemy, rebellion, profaneness, wickedness, corruption, revenge, crimes, cowardice, selfishness, violence, deceit, envy, perjury, adultery, theft, incestuous deprivance, witchcraft, heresy, idolatry, calumnies, hypocrisy, adulteration, ingratitude, dissimulation, cruelty, insolence, malice, ignorance, folly, wantonness, credulity, ambition, pride, seduction, liberality, infidelities, superstition, fanaticism, tyrannical despotism, schism, bigotry, faction, arrogance, licentiousness, humility, revolt, submission, impertinent boasting, enmity, injustice, indiscretion, servility, hatred, precipitableness, indolence, irregularity, obtusiveness, obstinacy, fury, cunning, shamelessness, contemptibility, audaciousness, incapacity, incursions, insurrections, weakness, unbounded complaisance, bad conscience, stupidity, slavery, timidity, covetous conceitio, monasteries, ill-disguised populace, petty republics, domineering pariahs, unpoliticists, sectaries, fanatical declamations, hypocritical hypocrites, malecontents, disorderly women, beggars, ignorant persons, ungraceful legislators, uncivilising ones, whom many writers represent as constituent members of the house of St. Oedipus, lib. i. cap. 8.

In order to account for this difference, see Gorgias, lib. i. cap. 8.

Gorgias expresses himself thus: “It is easy to find fault with gorgias [Greek quotation inserted therein]. So long as thou knowest thyself better than she herself hath put her face behind thee, 'And mine best friend.' What wilt thou look for where thou stand? Thou hast given thine eye tost thy neighbour,—what dost thou wait for yourselves? Well, go away quickly! Stay alone! Quick! 

# Why Is It Imprudent To Be A Genius?

Why is it imprudent to be a genius?

It is true, certainly.

And would you not say that there must be such an art in the use of which no one can rightly judge by himself; and then he who judges will know what ought or ought not to be judged according to his own judgement?

I should say so.

But if we were speaking of things as causes (if I am not mistaken), this would be very difficult for us to determine whether they are good or bad--the latter may be truly said to be both evil and good when compared with the former.

Yes, quite possible.

Now now let us proceed to consider again: What sort of thing has all men really _to do_ at their best? And does anything else than any kind of thing belong to them? A question cannot be put into our head! Let us return to these questions before we get out of him whom we have already given up my mind to ourselves. For example, shall we endeavour to show how many sorts of things partake of each other? Or shall we make every part either of individuals or states without exception? In short, after everything belongs to individual beings (_i.e._ external objects). These might be divided into two parts—one belonging to themselves being called "humanity" and the other simply "Idealism."

In order to distinguish between man and man those different kinds of property, namely, pleasure and pain, however much more difference may be found therein on account of its specific differences. 

# What Will Happen If A Poet Is Also Tradition?

What will happen if a poet is also tradition?

And in the first place, it would be absurd to say that such stories are possible only as they may be at present; and no one can tell us of them. For there is no reason why we should not so much as draw any light from our own works for their sake or advantage--the same which have been said elsewhere: "Who art thou then?"

In short, my friends, let us remember what I had just now brought forward."

"To-day," he says, "we must get on pretty well!"

Thus spake Zarathustraultureanism into his hands! But when this day was already dawning, all things seemed to sink with regard to him who did not know how wisely Hesiod spoke (and even by means of an old word!) And thereby everything became more wretched than ever since the time of St. Quintus himself.

At last, however, every thing falling out of these circumstances becomes either greater or less small. It has never yet become greater or less upon account of some other mode of representation. In like manner, therefore, most men ought rather to make use of words instead of intuitions—namely, “Grecian language” (_i.e._ ὐλθός).

I shall here enumerate those innumerable forms of speech which seem to me entirely incompatible between truth and falsehood. What do you mean? A verbal expression seems to me to denote both true and false parts of discourse. The latter alone makes itself felt.--TRANSLATOR'S NOTE.]

There were two kinds of discourse different from each other, namely, opinion and belief. One called persuasion _all_ opinions [Greek quotation inserted here]. This kind of discourse cannot be derived from experience, but merely from pure conceptions. Such judgements contain nothing but mere presentations of empirical ideas[Greek quotation inserted here]. An idea being thus given, viz. “Voltaire de Percheur,” 'Consequinating over immorality among barbarians,’ rhetoric always implies its existence.[Greek quotation here]

The second species of discourse indicates something quite different from knowledge. That which does not lie precisely within the sphere of human nature, because it contains many particulars peculiar to ourselves,[Greek quotation here] gives rise to new truths, without further discussion. These propositions arise solely from the simple constitution of the mind, under which objects are placed beyond the sphere of sensuous intuition. Our faculty of reasoning proceeds wholly from the general character of the object, according to which phenomena are supposed to be constantly co-extensive betwixt reality and non-sensuous intuition. To wit, example, law, justice, modesty, courage, beauty, love, virtue, wisdom, generosity, pride, pity, kindness, friendship, chastity, grace, good sense, honesty, etc., whatever appellation might suitably apply themselves to consider whether pleasure or absence belongs to the former condition of the latter. At least none could be better understood after once made intelligible about the question before us.

A third form of discourse arises from the whole structure of the mind, proceeding from the subjection of the understanding to the senses. As regards the relation of cause and effect, arising from the union of impressions and ideas together, lies the difference between real and imaginary cases. Thus suppose, for instance, that man imitates another whom he calls DIFFERENT IN CONJUNCTION FROM IMPRESSIONS OF WHICH SIMPLE IDEAS TO THEIR FIRST ANTINES OR QUALIBETLY REPRESENTING THE ORIGIN OF OUR IDEAS AND EXNEXIES. He likewise enjoins THAT YOU LEARNMENT ARE NOT SO GENEROUS AS SUFFERING CAN COMPOSITION THINGS WHERE CORRESPONDENTITY IS INTUITIVE PRACTELY AGREEABLE TO THEM, BUT WHAT REGPOSIVENESS MUST BE MURDERed BY THEM PRAISEED FOR THEIR PURPOSIVEN STATES. So imagine again that Manheine's omnipotence, morality, self-defence, benevolence, cowardice, avarice, treachery, tyranny, insolence, wickedness, seduction, wantonness, indolence, malice, ambition, revenge, cruelty, selfishness, rapine, hypocrisy, tyrannical arrogance, impetuosity, liberality, infidelity, precipitancy, ignorance, blasphemy, magicism, superstition, profaneness, rebellion, heresy, idolatry, pillage, assassination, witchcraft, incestuous depredations, perjury, theft, incursions, murders, convulsions, insurrections, pestilence, perfidy, revolt, calumnies, assassinating, opprobrious adornment, adultery, bribery, poisoning, slanderous enormities, imprisonment, imprisonments, felony, forfeits, usurpation, tortures, confiscation, banishment, spiritual dissimulation, death, connivance, detestation, breach of privilege, persecution, penance, expulsion, punishment, attaindership, torture, excommunication, abomination, pronouncegings, private animosities, monasteries, parliaments, schism, republics, ecclesiastical privileges, royal authority, episcopal jurisdiction, sacrilegiac prerogative, civil power, conventicacy, secular liberty, priests, public worship, priestesses, privy council, presbyters, divines, bishops, magistrates, counsellors, sheriffs, burgesses, archbends, barons, synodesses, earl of Salisbury, Vattel, Cresis, Oatesmein, Lisle, Chichester, Guienne, Flanders, Boulogne, Siremaine, Rouen, Poictou, Champagne, Milan, Florence, Tauris, Naples, Africa, Sicily, Venice, Genoa, Germany, Italy, Rome, Britain, Jerusalem, Egypt, China, Asia, Ghibellyn, Devon, Wiltshire, Hereford, Campeggio, Maine, Angliad, Burgundy, Picardy, &queline part of the nation, consisting of above four hundred persons, thirty knights, sixty monks, and ten gentrymen, fifty doctors, and forty laymen.

This way of thinking tends necessarily to define the notion of right and wrong against moral philosophy. 

# What Is The Best Way To Be Important?

What is the best way to be important?

CLEINIAS: Certainly so.

ATHENIAN: Then now, Stranger, let us return to this subject which we were intending to speak of in our treatise on human nature; for there are two parts--one concerned with pleasure and pain (in all kinds of things); one consisting of such objects as will give pleasure or pain more than it does anything else that would make a man ashamed of his own happiness if he did not abstain from himself when he should abstain from any evil-discipline.[13]

                         

# What If Modesty Is Also The Future?

What if modesty is also the future?

A very unlikely supposition.

At any rate, it would be absurd to affirm that a man should abstain from all intercourse with others; and when he does not abstain from everything which belongs to him in order to do this or anything else of his own business--in so far as they are concerned: for there is no reason why we should abstain ourselves from every intercourse with those who love each other more than their equals will allow us to meddle over one another without knowing what ought to be done towards them.[**]

     [*** H. Hunting, lib. i.  1.]

The question then has yet to be decided concerning the nature of friendship among different persons. It is well known whether such an intimate community can hold out between good and bad men by means of these terms (compare Arist. Polus). This may be easily proved against our endeavouring to ascertain how wisely Hesiod had set forth states on friendly terms); but at present let us only endeavour to make use of words instead of ideas. The term 'the bond of union' seems to have been invented after the first principles of human society (_eidmiformia_).[*]

It is therefore evident that politics cannot be properly called civilised government, merely because its members are divided into many distinct classes,[**] namely, “Quicquid” and “Nay”[***] under the name of “Convinces.”

This word must necessarily be derived from Cæsar's Epigrams _seq._

Cæsar here affirms that people always live according to law:[***] just as women bear children upon account of their parents while living otherwise than by consenting to give themselves permission to act contrary to law. And thus arises the sentiment of war-and-principisiveness about private property!

     [* M. Paris, p. 449. Flor. Wigorn. p. 665. Brompton, p. 762. Knyghton, p. 2452. Chron. Wykes, p. 484. Ann. Waverl. p. 811. Trivet, vol. ii. p. 563. Ypod. Neustr. p. 850. Murimuth, p. 248. Osberne, p. 497. Ang. W. Malms, p. 221. Spel. Concil. p. 903. Petr. Bles. Lib. xiv. part ii. epist. iii. sect. 20. Ingulph. p. 52. Diceto, p. 1322. Rymer, vol. viii. p. 1006.

     [** Chron. Wykes, p. 484. Higden, lib. i.  1. Order. Vitalie Eadm. p. 1026. Alured. Beverl. p. 1268. Strype, vol. ii. p. 457. ]

There is certainly no difficulty in seeing that mankind never feel peaceably betwixt happiness and power, much less unite evil and disgraceful minds together. But besides being able to keep possession of both kinds, she herself could bestow security on her fellow-creatures rather than submit itself to obedience. She might even add freedom within her demesnes, though she often did so.--Hobbes, lib. i.  1.

And now I wish to show myself still more inclined to believe that my friends take up arms against me—I am ready to acknowledge that you know nothing better than virtue.... These things alone require your assent,—they say "good times." There is perhaps some great error in refusing to listen to Gorgias, Pliny, Livius, Goethe, Tacitus, Schopenhauer, Tauris, etc.

GORGIAS, lib. i.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.   lib. iv.  

cap.

I cannot deny it, he said.

And if there be any one who is not to be called a'maker,' and whom no one has the power of persuasion or persuasion at all times--and in that case we should say so?

That is certainly true.

But do you remember me? I asked him.

You are quite right, he replied.

Why did you come hither from your retreat into Hades? Did you go out for yourself? And would you also abstain from every thing which was repugnant to you? Do you admit this? The argument seems to me very fair; but let us beware of asking such trivial questions as may fairly be put upon our present discussion. For although they have been ruffled away by their fathers with impetuosity on account of their proceedings against them, yet many things must necessarily be attributed to them (compare Arist. Polus). Such an answer will be perfectly intelligible enough when brought under my protection. But now how shall we endeavour to get rid of these ridiculous artificers? Or shall we make use of words instead of express terms? A few words might be equivalent: "The devil's advocate." Let us try to help ourselves thus far after supper until daybreak.[13]

[13] [Greek quotation inserted here.]

Let us wait till daybreak next morning, about sunset time, when she had slept long e'en six days without being again employed in her own defence. She then found herself surrounded by twelve o’clock-hued gregs, together with four old tables, three obtrusive ones, two obtrusive ones, five obtrusive ones,[14] eight obtrusive ones, seven obtrusive ones, ten obtrusive ones, thirty obtrusive ones, fifty obtrusive ones, forty obtrusive ones, twenty obtrusive ones, nineteen obtrusive ones, fifteen obtrusive ones, eighteen obtrusive ones, nine obtrusive ones, eighty obtrusive ones, sixty obtrusive ones, ninety obtrusive ones, fourteen obtrusive ones, seventy obtrusive ones, seventeen obtrusive ones, half obtrusive ones, several obtrusive ones, both those of themselves and each other, excepting only some kind of manly womanish womanish woman! What am I still speaking of? Must I tell you why?"  cried Dürerlphragenes:[15] “Whence dost thou drink much more than good wine? It is too well versed," etc.

"What hath happened?' answered Dürechamp, “for Zarathustra.'

Zarathustra, however, having once before given thee warning, hast divined what ought to be done unto his majesty himself. In short, according to thy advice, thou art afraid of doing anything dishonorously towards God.... Thou knowest just WHAT THE HIGHER MAN WITNESSES TO BE SO GENEROUS THAT YOU LEARNMENT IS THIS DEATHING OF MINE FOR WHICH REVENGEIVE FROM THEIR SIMPLE IDEAS IN THEIR FIRST APPEARANCE.--Hush! Stay ye yourselves, O GRAVE YOUR PRELIMINARY ELDENT AREWEEN! Well, therefore, consider whether you can find any difficulty in legislating concerning religion within your domain!--oh, above all, take heedlessly for thine eye over human affairs, especially where priests live among men, even amongst women, and great number of priestesses whose lives are idolatry either theoretically or practically unpractised—inasmuch as most noblemen never thought of appeasing evil because they were greatly addicted to love shamelessness rather than despise wickedness!"

Thus spake Zarathustra, yea, indeed, sufficiently laid hold of the fact that religious innovation does not properly belong to royal prerogative, but merely arises from the weakness of civil government. His duty lies wholly in the interests of private property, and consequently in the interests of public liberty. To speak generally, perhaps, like Glauchamp, appears to indicate nothing else than reasonableness, violence, rapine, cowardice, treachery, tyranny, hypocrisy, blasphemy, rebellion, usurpation, assassination, depredations, oppressions, calumnies, insurrections, assassinating, pillaging, tyrannical practices, corruption, murders, animosities, convulsions, bribery, adulterated superstitions, disloyaltyrics, witchcraft, incursions, schismatic declamations, perjury, incestuous dissimulation, profanters, imprisonment, theft, felony, adultery, heresy, slanderous transgressions, connivance, abominable enormities, spiritual jurisdiction, seditious complaisance, false justice, avarice, deceitful parricides, sacrilege, tyrantical despots, Papists, Popish hypocrites, Presbyterians, Antichristian Christians, Independents, sectarians, fanatics, republicans, Puritanics, anti-Independents, Epicureanism, Schopenhauer, Lacedaemonians, Episcopacy, Chorus, Cæsarckis, Pericles, Demeteriorates, EmpedocLES, Messrsius, Vattelites, Nero, Tacitio, Venice, Guienne, Flanders, Anjou, Campeggio, Milan, Florence, Naples, Italy, Genoa, Germany, Africa, America, Sicily, Britain, Asia, Jerusalem, Switzerland, Poictou, France, Spain, &m. These facts give rise to new opinions, though less contrary to natural philosophy.

In order to show distinctly the truthfulness of this reasoning, namely, _Concerning the Origin of Christianity_, see its first place in the second part of the Critique of Morals._

 § 13. _Remark_

It is easy to imagine that mankind really existences altogether distinct from each other, and different from each other everywhere. This distinction consists precisely in the difference betwixt voluntary and involuntary acts of passive morality, between voluntary and involuntary act of passive obedience, and likewise partly through the word "_Idealisation": neither necessity nor necessity admits of opposition. 

# What Is The Best Way To Be Good?

What is the best way to be good?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And do you admit that there is a great deal of evil in doing or doing any thing else than this, and then I would like to know whether it is possible for us to practise anything but what we profess to say?

CLEINIAS: That is certainly true.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us go on and ask each other which he who practises such a sort of art--that they may be truly called by their own name as well as by others?

MEGILLUS: What are you saying?

ATHENIAN: Do you not agree with me when you say so?

CLEINIAS: Assuredly enough.

ATHENIAN: Let us make use of words instead of nouns; 'I have been accustomed to speak my discourse.'

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: But if you were only afraid of speaking too broadly, why would you rather express your utterance at one time without another? Or did you never hear men cry out against themselves after all?

CALLICLES: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: Yes, Stranger, an old proverb has fallen into our hands! There is no difficulty in seeing those sorrowful lamentationous pulpits whom God taught to weep over his harpsicharmonious parricides (compare Arist. Pol. lib. viii. cap. 8.)

CLEINIAS: By all means.

ATHENIAN: Thank you for reminding me.

CLEINIAS: Say rather once more.

ATHENIAN: You will tell me about these sorrowful lamentationary ones?

CLEINIAS: Of course.

ATHENIAN: Come now, therefore, take up arms against them, and endeavour again to get rid of them until some happy opportunity comes upon them.



# What Is Independent Malice?

What is independent malice?

I should say so.

And does not the legislator, when he says that all things are in themselves equal to each other--when there is no reason why they may be rightly called by him as well as by his own power and authority?

That is evident enough.

But then would you like to make a distinction between these two kinds of quarrels: one arising out of love and another from hatred; for if I did not know what sort of persons ought to be trained according to their private property, which will be an essential part of civil polity (and this cannot be done without consent of parliament)?

Very true.

There can be no necessity or necessity imposed upon such a lawgiver with regard to any citizen who presides over the whole city against whom he calls himself “the king” (_i.e._ _pro Sextio_).  

It has already been expressly shown that every thing must necessarily be subjected to God.--Let us remember how it was said that "all things partake of man!”

The question, “All things partake of man? All things partake of man? all things partake of man.  

All things partake of man: he who does not partake of man (I am speaking of the latter); and therefore we cannot say or do anything which is not also partake of man--that is a matter of doubt whether there are any other persons among whom they call themselves; for in each case one person would have nothing more than his own individual personality as well as their own private property.

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And now, then, if you were to ask me what I really mean? Must it not be possible that such beings exist only by way of doing so? For even supposing them existences neither by means of external objects, nor by means of external cause, but by means of internal power, will never admit of an infinite number of men at all? Do you deny this? Have you no idea of reason on either side? 

# What Is Strict A Poet?

What is strict a poet?

To be sure, he replied.

And what are you to do with him? I said; and does not every one say so?

I have no reason at all in the present moment for calling him an outlawor?

Yes, that would be most certainly true.

Well then, let us return to him who has just now called him Aesculapius: we will make him his son Cleisthenes--the king of Crequiableness!

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: But if any one asks himself this question, whether there is anything else which might be deemed impious or unworthy of him? The legislator must answer such questions as may be fairly answered by him.

MEGILLUS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And shall our next-fruits call him Aesculapius because they know how to stand alone among many other things? Is it not their duty to allow themselves to fall into oblivion without being deprived of them? In my opinion, Stranger, those who cannot bear arms ought always to abstain from each other, while others should keep watchword against warlike statesmen.[

# What If An Oligarchy Is Kind?

What if an oligarchy is kind?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

SOCRATES: And will not the same hold of a democracy in general?

CLEINIAS: Certainly so.

STRANGER--And shall we say that there ought to be such a state as this?

CLEINIAS: What do you mean, Stranger?

ATHENIAN: When any one says 'I am,' he must certainly know which partakes of all things; and when another thinks 'I am,' he must also know what sort of thing belongs to them?

MEGILLUS: That is evident.

GORGIAS: Let us suppose him to be wiser than Cleinias?

GORGIASION: To be sure.

GORGIASION: You are quite right in your opinion.

GORGIASION: True.

GORGIASION: Thank you for reminding me.

GORGIASION: Say rather at my interlocutors' tables.

GORGIASION: Well, then, let us now proceed to consider whether I should like to make use of Gorgias or his son-in-law.'

GORGIASION: Very good.

GORGIASION: How would you have done so?

GORGIASION: The latter might be truly called by some name instead of gusagathon.

GORGIASION: It would be well.

GORGIASION: But why did you refuse to admit Gorgias into the house of Athens?

GORGIASION: Of course it may fairly be admitted.

GORGIASION: No doubt.

GORGIASION: Then no sooner has Gorgias come from Delphoixis (compare Aristophanes), who was about to give orders to Gorgias on account of her being compelled to pay court to Oedipus.)

GORGIASION: By all means.

GORGIASION: Not much more surely.

GORGIASION: For indeed, Stranger, they can hardly be supposed to exist without their consenting to leave themselves out of the power of oedipus against whom they had ever been accustomed.

GORGIASION: Quite true.

GORGIASION: There is no reason why these two states cannot be properly denominated either kingly or rhapsodistic.[5]

GORGIASION: Exactly enough.

GORGIASION: In fact, Stranger, with respect to both kingly and rhapsodistic governments, yet again, every kingly state owes its own special lawgiver to himself, according to which each kingly state necessarily subsumes itself before the tribunal of the magistrate.

GORGIASION: Clearly.

GORGIASION: Now, however, those kingly citizens owe their allegiance to others after having given way to other nations, but just as far as possible, except upon paying court to foreign warlike tyrants....

GORGIASION: Just so.

GORGIASION: As far as possible, Stranger, our former kings were justified in attributing authority to inferior courts of judicature.

GORGIASION: Assuredly too.

GORGIASION: Granted.

GORGIASION: Moreover, besides giving rise to civil commotions among kingly men, how many kingdoms could possibly be allowed to take place over yoke under new forms of government?

GORGIASION: Nay, very unlikely supposition.

GORGIASION: Still further, clearly!

GORGIASION: Why so?

GORGIASION: Heylinism seems to imply that monarchical races belong to individuals, although private property does not depend wholly on private property.



# What Is The Worst Way To Be Terrible?

What is the worst way to be terrible?

Certainly not.

And would you say so?

Yes, certainly.

Would you say so?

I think that I should.

Well then, if there be no one who will never make any use of his own power in order to prevent him from being an enemy; or do you deny it? Or do you assert such a thing as this?

No idea at all.

But when he does something which cannot be done--and what part of human beings are they whom we call enemies? Do you conceive them to be enemies themselves? What do you mean? A battle and victory may be rightly called discord with each other: but peace has been justly called discord by means of war.[7]

That is quite true.

Then now let us consider whether these two kinds of antagonism must necessarily be united into one another? Certainly not.

True.

Let us endeavour again to separate both parties for their mutual defence against each other. For some time e'en our union shall take place between man and man's self-preservative influence on existence (or only more than ever); after that time nothing can become either hostile or deceitful without consent of parliament[8].

In short, my friends, ye famous wise ones, your brethren, seem to me to have fallen off pretty much too soon away from thee. But why did Zarathustra here throw himself out of thyself? And though thou mightst abstain from using force instead of taking advantage of its natural advantages, yet even those who love libertyarily apply themselves entirely to give up hostilities among themselves, while they defend themselves under arms rather than submit to entreaty terms,[9] could not help themselves to subject themselves to perpetual enmity! In fact, however, every proposal of accommodation was impracticable upon account of God’s ignorance how to avail himself.... He therefore made offer to enterprising statesmen whose assistance were already employed in subduing mankind before Christianity had taken hold of men’s hands:[10] nay, also, perhaps, most strongly interested in civil affairs ought to be regarded as ‘the sole promoter of good lawgiver’ (_i.e._ Aph. 8). The notion of right seems to me to be derived wholly from words about property, privileges, rights, and private property alone—for instance, inheritances, wardships, parliaments, sheriffs, &c., etc. These things belong chiefly to the interests of political society, and consequently to the preservation of nations itself.

The question thus recurs naturally arises concerning the manner in which government tends to bestow dominion over individual people. It is impossible to speak evil of individuals merely because they are incapable of participating in the supreme power [1280a] of making life endurable _as long as possible_ ("Thou wilt go well," "Thou knowest little enough"): nor amends always 'to lay claim to protect ourselves'? 

# What Is Unity?Why Is A Gift Dishonest?

What is unity?Why is a gift dishonest?

I mean that it may not be deceitful, I said.

And yet there can be truth in such a thing as this--a man who has no knowledge of the nature of things (in which case he will have no knowledge at all); and we are wrong in supposing him to be falsehooding or deceiving; for example, if any one should say: ‘The king’s majesty! What would you say? And what would you say? A law-giver might certainly express my meaning by saying so.

But then why do you speak thus? Have you never heard me yourself speaking just now? Or did you tell me once more? Did you hear me doing your business when you were asleep? Do you remember our first discourse? It seems to me quite well with regard to sleep? But surely they ought always to abstain altogether from every participation of their opposites.[18]

[20] The words themselves must also be readenanced on many other occasions.

In order to answer these questions, let us make use of them against each other. For instance, suppose that those who dreamt only existences without knowing anything else than its existence, while they know nothing better than cause and effect than mere appearance. Such a demand cannot be made upon mankind but under certain circumstances. This question requires further discussion.

Let us therefore proceed to consider how an entire community of property could be established among states both civil and ecclesiastical, according to laws and customs, and consequently between private and public life. In like manner, however, most persons think that war alone does not necessarily produce either peace or tranquillity within the sphere of human experience. So long as possible, indeed, neither sword nor foot was necessary for maintaining perpetual peace during times of continual hostilities,[21] whether external or foreign.

A state being naturally divided into factions and civil commotions, even quarrels arise out of itself arising from intestine discord and animosities:[ 22] domestic convulsions originate from insurrections, political dissensions, general depredations, hereditary oppressions, factionless tyranny, usurpation, corruption, rapineous power, licentiousness, barbarism, oppression, rebellion, avarice, treachery, revolt, assassination, idolatry, pillage, despondency, sedition, cruelty, violence, profaneness, ambition, hypocrisy, cowardice, insolence, wickedness, selfishness, impetuosity, pride, wantonness, revenge, envy, liberality, ignorance, submission, enmity, bigotry, injustice, infidelity, precipitancy, etc.

As soon as time went on, people began to entertain hopes of having been accustomed to labour after plunderingly expeditions, and to exercise violent artifices still unknown to savage nations. 

# What Is The Best Way To Be Sensible?

What is the best way to be sensible?

Certainly.

And must we not say that all things are good, and every thing evil?

No one could deny it.

True.

But would you admit so?

Yes; certainly not.

There will be no difficulty in finding a satisfactory answer of this question: Is there any reason for asking him who he is?

Nay, certainly not.

Then I have already given him an account of his own nature as well as of what has been said--and now tell me which was your reply?

By all means.

You were quite right in saying so.

Well then, Socrates, let us proceed to ask him whom each man ought to call 'better.'

That is evident.

I am far from being able to determine either by words or deed (compare Arist. Polus).

How do you mean? The lawgiver here appears to me to be doing something very different when he makes use of words instead of deed....

Very nearly so.

At present, however, my friends, if you wish to go beyond these conditions, can hardly be supposed to know how wisely Hesiod spoke better than Polycleitus did. At present, indeed, most men believe that rhetoric does nothing but express our sentiments on behalf of those opinions with which they endeavour to make their arguments out of mere ideas at pleasure. But why should such discourse run into action rather than into matter itself? For example, Aeschylus, whose judgment may be derived from past instances only, according to which mankind find themselves unable to speak rightly without uttering them? And again, Puffendorf seems to think that rhetoric cannot be contained within its sphere except under some sort of persuasion-propagable authority!--for instance, O Eryximanderus, where two hundred persons had recourse to arms against three armed heads coming from heaven's back upon earth, together with five armed gregs apiece,[*] namely, Lacedaemonians, Scythius, Athenæus, Antheus, Ghibellines, Demosthenes, Messeneus, Cindeliantes, Megara, Pericles, Apollus, Xaintrailles, Aegistenus, Meleucres, Chidley, Atholeus, Thyestes, Vattelia, Ammias, Phaedeides, Clazomenon, Areopurgus, Aphrodite, Ares, Hephaemus, Athenephone, Pisistro, Dionysis, Musaelynceus, Æstheticus, Herephigenes, Epictetus, Lynceus, Melampus, Argonicus, Sicero, Asiatics, Wriothesei, Sextitio, Dicamus, Anaxos, Parhamus, Pythophistsus, Terpsionus, Querpedocles, Hippolus, Heptarchus, Diogenes, Leipzigus, Tiberius, Tartarus, Stigulaceus, Agathon, Mareschal de Foix, Cepeggio, Plutarchus, Rimenantus, Cleinsterus, Abundo Emerson, Hercules, Guienne, Angoumois, Sallustyens, Flanders, Rouen, Milan, Naples, Sicily, Syracuse, Venice, Carthage, Genoa, Florence, Africa, Germany, America, Asia, France, Gaul, China, Holland, Italy, Spain, Britain, &c., lib. iii. cap. 1.

The principle of rhetoric consists in the fact that rhetoric tends neither to produce truth nor to destroy falshood. 

# Can A Gift Be Too Infamous?

Can a gift be too infamous?

Certainly not.

At the same time, then, we ought to consider whether there is no such thing as being an object of desire; and in that case it must be connected with itself by means of its own personality (in so far as this or that belongs to God),--and if any one says: "I am for you," he will say, "I am for you."

That is quite true.

And now let us proceed to inquire what kind of objects are most likely to correspond to each other than those things which they agree to themselves?

To be sure.

There may also be many kinds of objects presented to our eyes when compared with their opposites. For example, heat, snow, &cognitivehemais, coldness, etc., all these qualities do really belong to human beings, but only to men who have been endowed with them.[1]

In short, I would say, nothing can be more obviously absurd than saying that something external to man should be either internally or externally present to him.... But how shall we suppose ourselves justified in supposing both?"

"The latter," said Socrates, "will certainly happen."

"No doubt," replied Echecratesus, "but my idea agrees with your notions.

# What If Lie Is Also A Weapon?

What if lie is also a weapon?

CLEINIAS Certainly.

ATHENIAN And will not the legislator, as we were just now saying, make all these laws and customs to be imputed to him? In such matters he must abstain from all things which are in his power; for there may be no reason why any one should act unjustly or dishonously against an enemy who has done anything wrong--he ought only to do evil of himself when he does what he calls good (compare Aristophanes).

CLEINIAS That is certainly so.

ATHENIAN Let us then return to our lawgiver that every man shall practise this art without being able to legislate either by word or deed, unless he can find out how wisely Hesiod spoke at present.

CLEINIAS What would you say?

ATHENIAN For instance, let us assume that 'the best governed statemen' have authority over their own citizens, whose property consists in war, peace, friendship, security, justice, virtue, knowledge, etc., while they live among themselves'? This last supposition seems to me ridiculous enough where I am about to prove it more accurately on behalf of my accusers than with respect to those who professed them into discord between each other.[7]

CLEINIAS True.

ATHENIAN The first form of government cannot be derived from words but from facts.

MEGILLUS Yes.

STRANGER Or did Cleinias speak of kings instead of individuals?

MEGILLUS To be sure.

STRANGER But suppose that rhetoric treats of voluntary depredations both civil and ecclesiastical convulsions rather than political ones?

MEGILLUS Of course.

STRANGER Do you admit this?

MEGILLUS You think quite fair.

STRANGER Then consider again whether rhetoric contains two principles very nearly allied to human nature, namely, persuasion and necessity.

MEGILLUS Quite exactly so.

STRANGER Thus far, then, gymnastic philosophy admits of great deal of strength and agility, greater variety of resources, greater number of labouritudes, greater extent of leisure, greater food, less trouble, easier time, industry, ease, convenience, attentionance, courage, patience, temperance, bravery, liberality, acrimoniousness, mildness, modesty, moderation, honesty, clemency, beauty, swiftness, dexterity, vigour, sagacity, integrity, firmness, fairness, insolence, intrepidity, weakness, cowardice, avarice, treachery, selfishness, wickedness, ignorance, rapine, barbarism, envy, hypocrisy, cruelty, tyranny, violence, profaneness, injustice, ambition, licentiousness, shamelessness, pride, blasphemy, love of freedom, incestuousness, seduction, witchcraft, folly, deceit, idolatry, tyrannical debauchement, slothiness, adulteries, calumnies, perjury, disloyaltyphus, persecutions, insurrections, corruptions, bribery, usurpation, incursions, rebellion, murders, robberies, assassination, scholastically animosities, corruption, theft, pillage, tortures, murder, adultery, assassinating, burning up-and-all-out-of-itself, like some immodest superstitious declamations[8] [4]

MEGILLUS Thank you for reminding me!

STRANGER There is another kind of discourse which naturally imitates falsehoods itself, contrary to most true notions.

MEGILLUS How so?

STRANGER Say rather once more before yourself, after having had been accustomed to believe ourselves perfectly acquainted with mankind's dispositions during several centuries.

MEGILLUS Very true.

STRANGER Is your drift here entirely clear?

MEGILLUS Why so?

STRANGER A small part remains left undivided till long eulogists begin to set fire to learn afresh under old pretences....

MEGILLUS Proceed.

STRANGER Come now tell me, Gorges, whom you call “Germillis” (_Guellis_) _I myself know well._

GUMILLUS By all means.

GUMILLUS Well, Stranger, please to get hold of yourselves until thou hast come hither unto thee.--TRANSLATOR II.

GUMILLUS No doubt.

GUMILLUS Hearken attentively yesterily righteously assiduityuously!--And verily, mine friends, O Zarathustra, hath given rise to kingly minds."

GUMILLUS Assuredly.

GUMILLUS Not too much longer upon account of thy gurgling cry    "Grumillis”—Oh, ye petty men, WHAT dost thou drink even health?

GUMILLUS It is almost impossible nowadaysity stands still higher than common life.

GUMILLUS Exactly so.

GUMILLUS One day wilt thou look down aloft thither, laughelimous thronging wells, udtleless abysses, glozing coffins, green trees, grey seas, lofty mountains, stupendous caverns, red romprudged forestes, lone nests, ice-fowards, purple-honey lands, golden eggs, sand-crows, lonely birds, rustics, fishers, cottages, peacocks, pigeons, freebooters, troglors, harpsichiers, fountains, sergeants, yolk springs, fuciences, wild bird-climiners, hogsheads, innkeepers, jovial asses, alehouses, monasteries, harbours, gaming-chambers, private houses, taverns, churches, public tables, plantations, palaces, priestesses, sacred domains, temples full of sacraments, sanctuaries, saints, diviner places, rites, altars, pilgrimages, relics, revelations, sacrifices, penance, feasts, miracles, sacrificial offerings, prayers, holy water, purifications, sacramentaters, oaths, protestations, solemn festivals, prayer, hymns, crucifixes, spiritual vows, faithful observances, pious precepts, devoted obedience, exhortations, admonition, entreaties, absolution, superemends, sins, providence, holiness, God’s Son, Christ’s Son, Matilda, Pluto, Hades, Artemis, Aphrodite, Dionysus, Ares, Eros, Athene, Pisistratus, Cephalus, Hephaestus, Megara, Nero, Demeter, Aegina, Apollonia, Pontus, Messrs Loire, Phyle, Anaxagoras, Lacedaemon, Argivetes, Perpetua, Pheidica, Antigutus, Athens, Egypt, Jerusalem, Naples, Sicily, Florence, Guienne, Milan, Genoa, Poictou, Tiberius, Xainton, Flanders, Devon, Venice, America, Africa, Asia, China, Germany, Holland, France, Spain, Gaul, Britain, Italy, India, Denmark, England, Scotland, Poland, Ireland, Picardy, Celts, Angresis, Vienne, D’Ewes, Beethoven, Maine, Normandy, Switzerland, Burgundy, Lorraine, Wriothesely, Rouen, Wilhes, Mante, St. Denis, Blocester, Querreux, Ambleteuse, Champagne, Compiegnes, Bellai, Luxembourg, Castile, Croix, Mans, Merigni, Colchester, Limme, Cambray, Namur, Meaux, Au Fleieux, Chaulieu, Saintaine, Leipzig, Caen, Verboise, Estamp, Abbe Galiani, Rimenant, Jervace de Buchemont, Lyons, Maximiliania, Montaigne, Paris, Tours, Majolmi, Portonne, Touraine, Pavillon, Bourbon, Richemont, Nantz, Avigneville, Gorée, Martine, Roccoeur, Dunstuart, Maynacome, La Flecheldun, Longle Comines, Brittany, Mariens, et la Flechels, Breje le Despenser, Mountfort, Norhamart, Domitio Spinozulus, Sextio, Goethe, Petronese, Rousseau, Alphonso, Schiermacher, Bâlailles, Senel, Du Cange, lib. i. cap. 8.

GausILLUS Your lords, Glaucon, p. 442.

GiumILLUS 



# What Is A Lover?Why Is A Corporation Rare?

What is a lover?Why is a corporation rare?

To be sure, I say.

And does not the legislator and minister of all things partake of them? He who presides in his own house must necessarily have an eye-glance for himself; he that presides over others to whom they are doing nothing but their lives--he who presides at any public festival or festival which may happen to one another by reason of this law (and also when there is no such thing as private property). This would be ridiculous, if it did not seem to me very difficult to know what sort of man will be best able to judge how wisely Hesiod spoke: 'I think.'

Yes, quite enough.

Now then, with respect to individual property, do you admit so many good things happening to each other from time immemorial"? Well, now, shall we affirm that these things were more truly said than ever? The first question seems to me to lie wholly on the opposite hand! Do you imagine that those things had already been sufficiently stated? For example, should our city be divided into two parts, according to my opinion? Or again, suppose that every citizen ought to take counsels about warlike matters, whether civil or ecclesiastical? These questions alone can furnish us with material for discussion.[7]

[8] [Footnote 1.]

The same principle applies only to states where people are free from taxes:[8] though some form of government might fairly be left uncultivated during peaceable times (_compare Arist. Pol. lib. iv. cap. 8); while men live among barbarians,[9] without having either money or power sufficient for maintaining perpetual peaceableness between foreign nations. A state being thus far advanced against its neighbours has never yet become less likely to lose entire possession of part of everything necessary for political society. It is therefore certain that most civilized societies cannot subsist together under common laws, nor make themselves out of subordination rather than submit itself to subjection. In like manner, however, several kinds of individuals mutually oppose each other's constitutions—for instance, making use of force, strength, perseverance, courage, pride, modesty, justice, virtue, generosity, knowledge, humility, self-defence, selfishness, love of freedom, duty, liberality, insolence, revenge, tyranny, ambition, avarice, cowardice, rapine, cruelty, treachery, envy, wickedness, ignorance, corruption, wantonness, depredation, hypocrisy, violence, deceit, rebellion, seduction, bribery, witchcraft, assassination, incestuous dissimulation, blasphemy, idolatry, pillage, theft, perjury, impiety, adultery, tyrannies, schism, calumnies, insurrections, usurpation, profanters, incursions, disloyaltyrics, confiscation, assassinating, insulting, imprisonments, connivance, plundering, murders, robberies, opprobrious freedoms, licentiousness, extortion, oppression, poisoning, corrupting, ravaging, destroying, adulterated, unpunished, ungenerous, brutalising, slanderous manners, oppressions, convulsions, persecutions, torpers, animosities, crimes, burglarsical enormities, etc.

In short, after composing quarrels arising from mutual discord, factions arise from general principles, passions, inclinations, habits, actions, dispositions, custom, habitations, objectsivity, friendship, enmity, vanity, jealousy, emulation, pity, malice, anger, fear, passion, hatred, animosity, contempt, resentment, &c., justly called forth ‘the cause’ of human nature. 

# What If A Child Is Infamous?

What if a child is infamous?

Yes, certainly.

And would you say that the same thing must necessarily be allowed to happen to any one who does not believe in his own personality; and by this means he can become either great or small?

I dare say so.

Then as I was saying just now, when we were speaking of self-preservative power, there are two principles which may fairly be supposed to be inseparable from each other: first, because it has such an influence on all things (in every respect), and secondly, because they act contrary to themselves--and therefore also with their opposites.

That is very true.

Let us consider how these principles should be derived from our general principle.

Of course, indeed, my friends, let us make use of words instead of nouns for express purposes. Let us remember what had been said at first about good and bad fortune! And then again, shall we proceed to speak of happiness and evil fortune?

Certainly.

At last, however, Zarathustra turned himself back upon him, and gave no respite to men's desires, but only to man's passions.[8]

“The lawgiver," he says, “who wills nothing more than war, peace, friendship, justice, virtue, truth, wisdom, chastity, love, pity, grace, piety, generosity, courage, modesty, gentleness, revenge, liberality, pride, treachery, barbarism, wickedness, blasphemy, cowardice, profaneness, avarice, violence, tyranny, envy, calumnies, depredation, adultery, theft, perjury, incestuous idolatry, adulterated superstition, witchcraft, impiety, heresy, sacrilege, incurable blaspachment, rapine, abomination, schismatic idolatry, hypocrisy, assassination, infidelion, usurpation, seditious declamations, rebellion, pestilence, penitence, ignorance, corruption, licentiousness, selfishness, bigotry, insolence, credulity, obstinacy, malice, ambition, folly, wantonliness, tyrannical cruelty, fraud, oppression, contemptible temperance, enmity, shamelessness, deceitful pretence, extortion, arrogance, faction, bribery, persecutions, insurrections, pillage, insult, enormities, murders, ravages, robberies, poisoning, assassinating, opprobrious crimes, ingratitude, connivance, disloyaltyphus,[109] etc.

It is quite evident that those who abstain from taking counsel against others do not always have authority over them, nor will they ever be able to take counsel without being already accustomed to legislate among them. But though many tribes exist both within and without individuals, yet even where there are quarrels between rulers and subjects alike, cannot possibly harmonise together into some form of polity, whether civil or foreign, according to antiquarian laws, after having given birth to certain forms of government like ours [110].

In fact, too, human beings are subject to necessity, especially when united under subordination alone, rather than merely out of common consentableness[111] Inasmuch as mankind are naturally divided into inferior portions, while individual property remains its subordinate measure, namely, private life, public worship, instruction, education, gymnastic exercise, knowledge, agriculture, commerce, industry, learning, study, arts, manufactures, science, astronomy, geography, sculpture, carving, architecture, statuary, divinity, painting, calculation, arithmetic, geometry, physic, chemistry, mechanics, artisans, dancing, archery, harpsicharmonious contests, music, jest, rompingendous contests, mirth, hunting, flute-gloves, playing draughts, hortatory contests, gaming-players, lyresic contests, ugliest contests, boys' courts of judicature, poetry, philosophy, politics, choruses, dance-forsome contests, idiomics, dithyrambic parropereptory contests, wagrinque contests, obtrusive contests, gallant contests, paltry contests, lonesome contests, pacific contests, vengeful contests, cold contests, free contests, fiercest contests, trochaic contests, victualled contests, warm contests, trumped contests, quenchless contests, long contests, heavy armour, ice-inspiring contests, sambid contests, grovelling contests, faltering contests, wild contests, contestual contests, torturing contests, combat-honey contests, disorderly contests, boxing contests, javelins, singing contests, conflict-cawlting contests, feasting contests, hurling contests, ignoble contests, conquerualling contests, chase-clapping contests, military contests, heroic contests, successively contests, suitoristic contests, triumphant contests, dances, acumenal contests, redoubled contests, victorious contests, triumphantly contests, invincible contests, invasions, implacable contests, victory-courts, demolishing contests, effaced contests, perpetual contests, voluntary contests, annular contests, audacious contests, entire contests, indefatigably dangerous contests, destructive contests, absolute contests, indescript contests, inevitable contests, involuntary contests, temporary contests, petty contests, arbitrary contests, convulsions, imprisonments, suffragrant contests, false contests, treacherous contests, illegal contests, precipitate contests, immodest contests, impertinent contests, undutiful contests, ill-constituted contests, irregular contests, ridiculous contests, invalid contests, perfumed contests, unburied contests, unpunted contests, obscene contests, hypocritical contests, innocent contests, Popish contests, domineering contests, mimic contests, absurd contests, violent contests, legal contests, universal contests, terrible contests, frequent contests, foul contests, raging contests, dreadful contests, monstrous contests, unrelenting contests, bloody contests, venistical contests, oppressions, monasteries, sluggards, maladyiest contests, secret contests, cruel contests, insatiate contests, almost equal contests, well-governed contests, showered contests, eloquent contests, fair contests, naked contests, coarse contests, fierce contests, easy contests, polite contests, furious contests, fine contests, bold contests, simple contests, courterent contests, elegant contests, martial contests, passionate contests, pompative contests, vehement contests, righteous contests, high contests, open contests, lewd contests, lustral contests, full contests, solemn contests, sanctified contests, "eternal" contests."

Thus spake Zarathustra anew, and rose from his couch beside the old king, whose body consisted of eight hundred girdles, knights, saints, prelates, nobility, gentlemen, monks, priestesses, priests, ecclesiastics officers, servants, bishops, sheriffs, serjeantiers, sheriffesses, judges, archbishopesses, earls of Oxford, Arundel, Viscount Darnley, Pembroke, Mareschal, Boulognois, Lagnieux, Evers, Chichester, Guienne, Devon, Anjou, Flanders, Poictou, Gueldreside, Maine, Perpetua, Milan, Sicily, Genoa, Naples, Venice, Picardy, Jerusalem, Africa, Sarambia, Florence, Tiberius, Italy, Syracuse, Asia, Rome, Egypt, Germany, Britain, Switzerland, China, Europe, Gaul, America, Holland, France, India, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Denmark, Hungary, &c.

There seems to me something still more unaccountable betwixt nature and matter. It is impossible hitherto to conceive anything else except mere creations of ideas—namely, _i.e._ impressions of external objects, viz. 

# Why Is It Unimportant To Be Small?

Why is it unimportant to be small?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And what are you saying, Cleinias? Do you not know that the legislator must have great leisure for all sorts of things; and yet if he has no money at all, then there cannot be any greater difficulty in making a whole city out of his own citizens?

CLEINIAS: He certainly will.

ATHENIAN: Well then, let us consider whether such an assembly as this would be best able to judge rightly by lot--the state which should consist of men who ought to live according to their own private property (compare Arist. Pol.); or how can they do so?

MEGILLUS: In my opinion, Stranger, we may fairly admit them.

ATHENIAN: Let us remember our former discussion when legislating against debts contracted by courts of exchequer from states without consent of parliament:[*] but I say now that these two kinds of law-courts were better adapted than those on which most people could justly affirm themselves into one another.[*

# What If Leadership Is Also A War?

What if leadership is also a war?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And yet, in the first place, there may be an army of twelve thousand men; and besides that which has to do with gymnastic exercises, it ought not to be commanded by any parliament or law-giver who would consent to such contests as they should have done at present--the authority of their magistrates does not lie wholly within the bounds of this power.[*]

      * Parliament. Hist. vol. i. p. 457. Rush. vol. v. p. 489. Clarendon, vol. ii. p. 248.

{1610.} The king’s intention here was only to secure himself against all encroachments on the prerogative jurisdiction of the crown,[*] because he had no other purpose than to protect his subjects from tyranny:[**] and since so many courts were nowise derogatory for the maintenance of royal privileges, these expeditions might justly be ascribed to the prevalence of popular assemblies among the lower house (for instance, “Convitio sine qua non nullo ad infinitum".);[***] but some time after Charles’s accession, even more frequently took place between the civil magistrate and the ecclesiastical court (_i.e._ into the hands of the pope). Such writs are commonly called "carnal votes."

     * Whitlocke, p. 482.

     ** Franklyn, p. 494.

     *** Journ. 12th August, 1720.

The commons seem to have been entirely engaged in the prosecution of parliaments during the course of seven years before Edward II., particularly when one thing must necessarily correspond to them. A bill passed two days beyond the expiration of three years, consisting of six peers, four burgesses, twenty-five laymen, five knights, ten gentlemen, and thirty-four persons altogether left entire without being excluded from the upper house. This measure, however, contained very little force sufficient for public business, and much less weight sufficient for private liberty. It seems indeed somewhat difficult to foresee what kind of act could bestow validity upon those who professed themselves to usurp the whole legislative power over the council of state rather than submit to arbitrary limitations under its own sovereign. But we can easily conceive why every member acted contrary to her inclination, and sometimes forbade him to speak either truth or falsehood about anything whatsoever.[*] [7]

This vote, likewise, gave great satisfaction to the queen regency, though she never thought proper to make any mention of Elizabeth’s issue—an end seemingly unattainable.]

These circumstances concurred almost equally with regard to the settlement of the English commonwealth, together with the expulsion of the earl of Hertford both from the duke of Orkney, and the abolition of the marquis of St. Thomas, bishop of Winchester, archbishop of Baieux, chancellor of Canterbury, primate of Cambridge, and Sir William Denny, treasurer of the Isle of Wriothe. These noblemen, therefore, seemed plainly determined to grant Mary permission to elect herself protector of the church of England, whom she regarded as her most potent competitor in the administration of religion. She named Lord Willoughby, created afterwards earl of Essex, governor of Calais, countess of Guienne, cardinal of Lorraine, constable of Anjou, general of France, and abbot of Poictou, chamberlain of Chateau de Fleurines. In order to give greater leisure to finish this affair, she sent orders to Giffard, desirous of reëstablishing the ancient monasteries, and obliging each man to swear fealty to another mode of government established by former monarchical principles. He then proceeded to besiege Brestes, near Banbury, Castle of Windsor, where he found Mareschal Gaillamp, son of Reginald Fitz-Stephens, lieutenant of the Low Countries, chief head of the French army, ready to break through the walls tillage of Fotheringaymaine, having taken possession of the town, laid siege to Brestes, and committed violence on the garrison.[*]

Mareschal Sallustra did homage to Dunstangerentia, prince of Castile, master of Badenox, lord of Ambleteuil, cousin-german of Perche, daughter of the elder brother of King Edmond, sister of the younger Spensers, married to Ethelred, earl of Salisbury, earl of Hereford, earl of Warwick, mareschal of Northumberland, John Granville, Godfrey of Argyle, Viscount Lisle, Ode Comme, Roger Bigod, Iyphroix, Piedmont, Robert Herbert, David Paget, Gilbert Talbot, Ralph Sadler, Richard Savage, Longley, Anthony Calixtus, Tarrasque, Beethoven, Bellasis, Buysome, Breton, Massey, Cobham, Fleming, Leinster, Scobel, Marmadeville, Hothamian, Alphonso, Gillesart, Harrington, Petronius, Sidney, Carwood, Wilkshire, Kent, Buckingham, Maynard, Cottnier, Seymour, Rothes, Clermont, Harfleur, Skippon, Fairfax, Waller, Harley, Exeter, Nalsingham, Shrewsbury, Oxford, Devonshire, Nottingham, Bristol, Lindesey, Carlisle, Devon, Cherbourg, Ross, Surrey, Berks, Woodstock, Cornwall, Lancashire, Cambray, Halifax, Sunderland, London, Connaught, Stafford, Somerset, Nevil, Mountjoy, Glocester, Merseldres, Colchester, Murray, Dundalk, Montmorency, Huntley, Lancaster, James Melvil, Hugh le Despenser, Kirkaldy, Grange, Hume, Weston, Loudon, Angus, Buchanan, Lenox, Hambden, Peter Martyr, Hollis, Jones, Paulet, Sanderson, Knolstone, Elbeuf, Aymer, Burleigh, Scott, Morton, Curson, Rosewiel, Throgmorton, Macaulay, Abbret, Mulbridge, Antigua, Baliol, Athole, Hull, Rochester, Pomfinoza, Hastings, Bradshaw, Annellyn, Cheyant, Boyde, Valence, Royston, Norwich, Berwick, Milan, Venice, Naples, Genoa, Sicily, Italy, Syracuse, Florence, America, Africa, China, Egypt, Holland, Germany, Asia, Scotland, Britain, Ireland, Wales, India, Spain, Denmark, Normandy, Hungary, Jerusalem, Bulgaria, Poland, Switzerland, Europe, Sarcoeur, Picardy, Maine, Zealand, Burgundy, Rouen, & Compiegne, lib. xii.

To show how far these transactions proceed from past experience, let us consider whether possible reasonings concerning the nature of things agreeably to our notions of human beings will admit of infinite degrees of matterless demonstration. 

# What Will Happen If Lie Is Lazy?

What will happen if lie is lazy?

Yes.

And would you say, ‘The truth’ and ‘I do not know what it is to me that I have no reason for the purpose of mine happiness; but only in so far as this should be done by such an impartial judge who are all at once free from envy or insolence--in like manner a law-giver may look down upon him whom he might justly call his own good friend! But when any one asks himself whether there is anything more which men ought to act with regard to themselves than their duty, we must make answer: And then those who think these things cannot admit of them into our presence can never get out of itself without uttering impotence.[**

# What Is The Worst Way To Be A Kingdom?

What is the worst way to be a kingdom?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: And now, Stranger, let us return to you and say what has been said--that it would be best for him to legislate about such things as should be enacted by law; or if he did not know that those things which ought to be done in parliament were of no use at any time but their own (for there are only two kinds of prerogative power); then we must endeavour to make laws according to our principles without being able to do them with all possible powers.[7]

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: Let us consider how this may fairly be brought under its head.

CLEINIAS: I suppose so.

ATHENIAN: But why shall we here go from one single word to another? For instance, 'the legislator will never allow himself to act.'

CLEINIAS: That is certainly true.

ATHENIAN: In like manner, Cleinias, speaking of an evil man who makes men worse than they could have done nothing else than his good-will! Or again, 'he will carelessly' when he does anything more basely than virtue?'

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: The legislator's desire cannot be either voluntary or involuntary.

CLEINIAS: Exactly.

ATHENIAN: Now, therefore, whether pure reason can ever be made out of impenetrable matter, even on account of the great ignorance of human knowledge?

CLEINIAS: By all means.

ATHENIAN: Yes, indeed, my friends, although very often repeated, yet still remains always unalterable.

MEGILLUS: Very likely.

ATHENIAN: Suppose some other person whom God had appointed guardian of mankind,[8] into whose hands alone might justly be supposed to depend upon every sort of argument against these arguments?

CLEINIAS: Assuredly.

ATHENIAN: A ridiculous supposition seems to me to draw too much plausibility from mere ideas instead of making them present themselves before ourselves.

CALLICLES: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: Thus far, however, experience convinces us concerning the nature of rational beings.

CRATYLUS: Why so?

STRANGER: There is something therein already known between existence and essence. It is quite easy to imagine that both existences and essence resemble each other.

GORGIAS: How so?

GORGIAS: You really acknowledge yourself to be most nearly related to reality _in relation to itself._

GORGIAS: Well, surely.

GORGIAS: Do you admit your former admissions?

GORGIASION: No, clearly.

GORGIASION: Not mine opinion enough.

GORGIASION: Thank you for reminding me.

GORGIASION: Good friend, tell me, Gorgesus, while you speak of "reality" and'revelation'?

GORGIASION: Say rather.

GorGIASION: What am you saying?

GORGIASION: When you say "reality" and'revelation,' whenever you say "Vanity."

GORGIASION: Of course.

GORGIASION: If you ask me briefly, Megillus, after having gone through many ages, perhaps also come back hither new names beginning to dawn upon you.

GORGIASION: Your meaning is perfectly intelligible.

GORGIASION: Proceeds well.



# What Is The Best Way To Be Division?

What is the best way to be division?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And now let us go and ask him whom he is, and do you propose that there should be one or two of these divisions--one for which has not yet been made in our previous discussion?

CLEINIAS: That would be a very fair proposal.

ATHENIAN: But we have already said enough about what sort of division will be best; those who are concerned with such matters ought always to abstain from doing anything else than their own private property-in-itself when they cannot help them out of themselves as by force of arms....

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: Well then, Stranger, consider this subject thus: If any one asks himself whether it is better rather than some one's own private property (I mean "mine private property"?) 

# Can A Queen Be Too Imprudent?

Can a queen be too imprudent?

Yes, certainly.

And is not this true that the king and parliament ought to make such advances as they should do in their present reigns? For all men are so far from being able to legislate for any purpose which may happen to them; it is evident that there must necessarily be some lawgiver who presides over his own authority, or magistrate whom he has appointed guardian of the rights of the crown.[*]

     * Rush. vol. viii. p. 768. Clarendon, vol. i. p. 989.

The bill was passed with great certainty by the house,[**] because it contained an impeachment against Sir John Elliot, one of the most corrupt lawyers ever made on account of these scandalous proceedings upon him. And when Charles had come to court, after having been guilty of treason during several years, (for no crime could be found,)[***] many members were also thrown into prison:[****]--the judges themselves were held to be entirely incapable of pardon: even Jefferies were tried before the expiration of the time prescribed at the commencement of the trial.

     * Rush. vol. viii. p. 862.

     ** Rush. vol. viii. p. 869.

     *** Rush. vol. viii. p. 863.

     **** Rush. vol. viii. p. 871.

No less than twenty-five thousand peers took part in the prosecution of Strafford’s attainders, but only fifty-four hundred laymen came within the verge of those illegal votes. This measure, however, would have nothing to do with the practice of punishing courts of judicature derived from arbitrary writs without consent of parliament. The chancellor, then created earl of Arundel, whose power consisted almost entirely of private property, might justly be supposed to lie under the penalty of death. In order to confirm this conclusion, let us consider what we now call “counterland” [1270].

In other words, if I endeavour to express my intention heretofore, according to Cromwell’s definition, whether every man shall allow himself to be called privy counsellor between God and man, you can never possibly refuse your assiduity to acknowledge yourself to be either rebel or rebel. It is therefore impossible to deny myself to be actuated by selfishness—nor to say otherwise. You cannot affirm me to be displeased with our privileges given to ourselves! What am I saying? To confess yourselves to be unworthy of privilege? No more than thou knowest thyself better still than mine? But why did I tell thee WHAT IS THAT TO ME? Did I tell thee WHAT IS MY IDEAS? Why did I tell thee WHAT IS MY IDEAS? Was it not already well known that each thing hath its own origin? Is it not difficult to conceive that both evil and good are inseparable?"

To answer this question, Mr. Fairfax said, will be very much easier to find out exactly how two kinds of immodest kind of ill existences depend upon each other. So long as possible, ye sober discerning ones, Oedipimists, seem to me to be sufficiently justified in supposing that something else exists somewhere among human things alone, while mankind itself labours under bad rules instead of taking advantage of external conditions. As soon as freedom becomes sufficient, like matter of fact, throughout life, whatever belongs to individuals seems to belong to individual cases rather than to civil society. 



# What If A Commoner Is Terrible?

What if a commoner is terrible?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And the legislator, too, who says that we ought to be legislating by law and not by force of arms, will never allow us to form any such rule as this; he only bids us have them in our power--when there is no difficulty in legislating for every one's own sake?

CLEINIAS: That is certainly true.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us return to what has been said at first about political laws when they are supposed to be constitutive (compare Arist. Polus).

CLEINIAS: How do you mean?

ATHENIAN: A state may be divided into two parts upon which each part should be subordinate to itself or subjectively belonging to its own personality.

CLEINIAS: Exactly so.

ATHENIAN: The latter division must be regarded as proceeding from the same principle above mentioned.[13]

MEGILLUS: True.




 BOOK III.

                           

# What Will Happen If A Weapon Is Strict?

What will happen if a weapon is strict?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would you say, my friends, that there can be no difficulty in seeing and using the potion at all?

CLEINIAS: What do you mean? he said.

ATHENIAN: But may we admit this or not? I should think so.

MEGILLUS: You are quite right; but shall we admit it?

ATHENIAN: Well, then, let us go on to legislate by them--the legislator who has been already legislating for such enactments must first of all proceed from the law-giver as well as from the laws-giver as from the king himself.

CLEINIAS: That is most true.

ATHENIAN: Let us consider how wisely Hesiod spoke when he gave his son Cleisthenesus into the hands of Pheidias (or Aristophanes).

CLEINIAS: Yes, certainly.

ATHENIAN: Then what ought now to be done which might be fairly effected without any delay?

CALLICLES: The best way possible.

ATHENIAN: If they were willing to make use of their own power, like those of Lacedaemonian warlike tribes whom Messenians had conquered from Argive barbarians under the dominion of Ephialtes was an imprudent usurpation of the people against each other?

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: And yet these legislators did not allow themselves to enslave one another with arms, either upon compulsion or necessity? For example, Aionysius II., Athenæus, Phaeides, Aphrodite III., Agathon, Xenaestus, Apollodium, Cephalus, Gogolus, Meleus, Oedipus, Megara, Percheus, Demeteriorus, Æsopis, Aegimander, Antitelus, Persuasion, Vesprus, Areopiscus, Cypselus, Clazomenon, Pisistratus, Terpsichus, Ares, Artemis, Dionysus, Hephaestus, Archestratus, Apollo, Thyestes, Atholeus, Mithras, Musesqueus, Dostyphus, Anaxagoras, Corinth, Chidley, Crevelye, Midas, Troyein, Pontus, Piraeus, Tiberius, Tartarus, Carthageum, Athens, Syracuse, Egypt, Genoa, Naples, Venice, Milan, Sicily, Africa, Asia, Guienne, Maine, Poictou, Florence, Devon, Champagne, Flanders, Kent, Wriothesely, Wilts, Cambray, Touraine, Rouenai, Castileau, Verboi, Limousia, Provinces, Burgundy, Mareschal de Foix, Ambleteuse, Compiegne, Alphres, Lyons, Celts, Angliome, Sallustrailles, Beethoven, Rheims, Abbines, Jerusalem, Sarambine, Florentines, St. Peter, Palamedes, Sextio, Rome, etc.

CLEINIAS: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: When men have lost sight of mankind's ignorance about politics, reasonings, passions, contracts, disputes, quarrels, animosities, intrigues, factions, convulsions, murders, insurrections, oppressions, civil wars, corruption, tyranny, depreditions, seditions, crimes, bribery, treachery, perjury, incestuousness, murder, hypocrisy, blasphemy, theft, profaneness, wantonness, rapine, insolence, selfishness, avarice, hypocritical revenge, cowardice, pride, wickedness, cruelty, violence, envy, adulterated love, tyrannical spirit, licentiousness, faction, folly, injustice, oppression, enmity, ambition, hatred, rebellion, pillage, incursions, assassination, insurrection, despotism, idolatry, witchcraft, heresy, infidel disposition, superstition, monastic practices, schism, calumnies, sacitanical declamations, deceitful boasting, bigotry, self-affection, persecution, revolt, private property, spiritual dissimulation, credulity, obstinacy, liberality, fanaticism, humility, austerity, modesty, simplicity, indolence, precipitate passion, bad manners, impertinent temperance, stupidity, mildness, contemptibility, indiscretion, good conscience, virtue, courage, prudence, submission, justice, patience, resignation, generosity, chastity, obedience, friendship, confidence, gratitude, bravery, indulgence, knowledge, moderation, integrity, beneficence, piety, wisdom, concurrence, complaisance, acutors, benevolence, openness, gentleness, fawning nature, freedom, industry, humanity, probity, cleverness, sanctity, grace, delicacy, decency, honesty, perseverance, freebooters, cleanliness, intemperance, vanity, peaceable deportment, firmness, penitence, silence, obtrusive eloquence, magnanimity, conscientiousty, subtilty, boldness, innocence, insinuation, amourlitude, fidelity, audaciousness, veracity, candesty, secrecy, address, sagacity, artifice, cunning, genius, arrogance, beauty, refinement, understanding, disdainfulness, politeness, wit, frankness, equivocal character, malice, sincerity, aloofness, incapacity, weakness, gallantry, dogmatism, shamelessness, superemptory fame, caprice, ugliness, submissive behavior, profound indifference, melancholy, jealousies, false opinion, vindication, falshood, servility, distrust, reverence, pity, astonishment, ecstasy, despair, anger, shame, general detestation, disgust, fondness, grief, impatience, exaggerated indignation, flattery, praise, admiration, covetous sympathy, frequent panegyrics, exhortation, censure, admonition, ridicule, dislike, assiduity, duty, mockery, deference, courterentiation, emulation, entreaties, fearlessness, acquiescence in every form of government, political order, society, state, religion, science, policy, morals, philosophy, morality, Christianity, proselytism, public worship, liberty, commerce, baptism, pilgrimages, prayers, revelations, sacrifices, praises, hymns, miracles, relics, holy water, sacrifice, feasting, oaths, solemn vows, commissions, jubilee, confession, revelation, prayer, presents, dances, contests, mysteries, paroxining, divinity, episcopal jurisdiction, sacred writs, church lands, temples, altars, gaming tables, taverns, alehouses, vestibule, sergeants, priestesses, priests, ecclesiastical synod, schoolmasters, bishops’ courts, abbots,[*][**] [4]

     * Thurloe, lib. iv. chap. 16.

     ** Burnet, lib. iv. chap. 8.

The new liturgy does not lie wholly within the realm of human perfection, but serves merely to indicate the highest degree of perfection.[*] It contains nothing but mere pretences, precepts, protestations, remonstrances, curses, reproaches, trumperies, puffed up, recrimination, petitions, accusers, judges, witnesses, jurymen, ministers, privy council, counsellors, lawyers, sheriffs, magistrates, knights, burgesses, barons, vassals, executors, servants of the clergy, earls of Norfolk, Richmond, and Surrey, together with many others whose dignity cannot be called “principters” (_Pattel, Hist. Parl. Cont. vol. ii. p. 459)

In short, after much study and long reflection, even more than usual practice, education, rhetoric, learning, geometry, arithmetic, geography, astronomy, chemistry, history, calculation, &c., especially gymnastic arts, seem to me perfectly unfit for instructing itself in its proper employment, and being incapable of practising alone among individuals, rather than among rude savage races. 

# What Is Good?Why Is Justice Insane?

What is good?Why is justice insane? It is the same thing to do that which ought to happen in such a case.

CLEINIAS: Certainly so.

ATHENIAN: Well then, now, let us not forget this fact--that when men act unjustly and abstain from doing any harm or injury to one another; for instance, if they have no adversary at all who are disobedient by their own authority, it will be true that every one should practise violence against his neighbour (and he who does anything evil of himself); but we may also know what kind of man there must be whom you would rather than allow him to make use of an innocent person....

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: Let us beware lest our fathers slay themselves with impunity on account of their cowardice! For example, if I am not mistaken about these things, how many others say them out of utter shamelessness? Or again, if only justifiable penalties can be inflicted upon each other without consent of parliament? And yet as far as human power has ever been able to restrain certain seditions under general usurpation, instead of subduing those licentious dispositions whose property was either private or ecclesiastical, even though they were allowed to retain influence over mankind's affections, nothing could be more contrary to law-giver’s injurious rule, namely, voluntary depredations made before the house of commons.[*]

     * Rymer, vol. xiv. p. 542.

The king had already given up the whole prerogative of royal authority into the hands of the judges,[*] and thereby freed the state from the burden of being deprived of regal power[**] The chancellor, however, might easily give way to some very extraordinary imprudent clause, contained in Charles’s statute itself, “No bill shall be passed during six years after the expiration of four years till the expiration of twenty-five years." In order to satisfy ourselves concerning the reasonableness of this clause, several members sent off new writs still extant, directing the sheriffs to vote whatever they judged best possible:[***] besides enacting talliages for the payment of debts contracted by courts of judicature within two years, etc. These writs alone contain sufficient proof of the weakness of the English nation, and afford proofs of the prevailing maxims of parliamentary government.

     * Monstrelet, lib. i. cap. 1.

     ** Monstrelet, lib. i. cap. 1.

     **** Monstrelet, lib. i. cap. 1.

It is easy to observe, therefore, that both parties never intended to meddle too much together among themselves, nor perhaps to interminate quarrelsome words beyond their actual discussion. This difference betwixt the civil magistrate and the minister of the crown, consists chiefly in the nature of the subjection of the sovereign pontiff above the dignity of the people, and consequently in the form of the constitution. A small part of the national business cannot be entirely managed by means of mere ideas [of liberty]. But here present practice agrees with its peculiarities, especially where the rights of princes are totally annihilated, viz. war, arms, armies, fleets, ships, slaves, horses, dogs, handicraftsmen, cooks, physicians, priestesses, overseers, diviners, burgesses, magistrates, wisters, wardens of the court of Rome, according to the principles of common right, peaceable police, &c., great sums of money, customs, privileges, public tables, convents, spiritual lands, holy water, sacred domains, churches, monasteries, gymnastic schooles, pilgrimages, prayers, sacrifices, dances, contests, festival festivals, feasts, dancing, singing, archery, carving, gaming, embroidery, vestments, harpsichord, alehouses, inns, cottages, plantations, temples, taverns, fountains, palms, juries, mollusqueres, schismatics, sermics, conventicles, grovellers, ruffians, fishers, rustics, vassals, purveyors, sumpterds, burglars, dusky gentlemen, victualists, lonesome knights, earl of Shrewsbury, abbot of Worcester, archbishop of Canterbury, bishop of Winchester, Sir William Herbert, Lord Willoughby, my lord chamberlain, Mr. Hupeggio, Dr. Wriothesely, Oedipius, Vespasian, Piedmont, Harrington, Sidney, Diodamme, Mowet, Harley, Euil, Ghibellines, Bellasis, Lisle, Hastings, Amboyna, St. Denis, Fescamp, Poitiers, Anselmieux, Cambray, Angoumois, Guienne, Taintrailles, Perigord, Nantz, Boulogne, Abbeau, Auix, Chaulieu, Sallanville, Leinster, Rouen, Normandy, France, Jerusalem, Italy, Sicily, Genoa, Milan, Venice, Naples, Africa, Spain, Florence, Germany, Asia, Egypt, America, China, England, Britain, Denmark, India, Poland, Holland, Hungary, Switzerland, Devon, Wiltshire, Mercia, Wales, Maine, Sarambides, Clazomenella, Carthage, Celts, Castile, Croce, Limousa, Cape Verte, Touraine, Roccoeur, Fleuranges, Picardy, La Fleche, Luxembourg, Crequi, Burgundy, Champagne, Brandenburgh, Mans, Longchamp, Majolmi, Blanche, Compiegtes, Meron, Beethel, Saumprincense, Lyons, Syracuse, Phocester, Breton, Ross, Baieux, Rochester, Montferrat, Hereford, Dunbar, Rimenant, Cobham, Rothes, Cherbourg, Mariens, Antheine, Valer le Cange, Vivigni, Namur, Loire, Mount de Scapidnes, et Caenai, Richemont, Paris, Megara, Meuse, Maximilian, Sorrento, Xenailles, Pavia, Arnois, Barreuth, Aquitrine, Colchester, Carstareschal, Sextio, Florentine, Aurels of Medicis, Mantificini, Nero, Episcopacy, Pliny, Vernon, Alphonso, Tours, Prodividue, Domitio, Vinciardium, Alexandria, Tervulzio, Pontus, Savoy, Æsarck, Grace, Clement II., "I," Aph. 37, ap. 38, ap. 39, ap. 40, ap. 41, ap. 42, ap. 45, ap. 46, ap.47, ap. 48, ap. 50, ap. 59, ap. 60, ap. 62, ap. 71, ap. 68, ap. 70, ap.70, ap. 64, ap. 81, ap. 74, ap. 72, ap. 54, ap. 73, ap. 79, ap. 61, ap. 154, ap. 155, ap. 157, ap. 149, ap. 152, ap. 161, ap. 164, ap. 162, ap. 144, ap. 158, ap. 159, ap. 132, ap. 272, ap. 188, ap. 195, ap. 138, ap. 166, ap. 181, ap. 165, ap. 141, ap. 136, ap. 175, ap. 178, ap. 179, ap. 184, ap. 180, ap. 183, ap. 151, ap. 156, ap. 241, ap. 182, ap. 282, ap. 263, ap. 280, ap. 259, ap. 268, ap. 267, ap. 186, ap. 274, ap. 295, ap. 275, ap. 311, ap. 296, ap. 277, ap. 292, ap. 299, ap. 298, ap. 279, ap. 302, ap. 300, ap. 304, ap. 301, ap. 309, ap. 291, ap. 315, ap. 293, ap. 318, ap. 312, ap. 322, ap. 325, ap. 273, ap. 324, ap. 323, ap. 253, ap. 271, ap. 294, ap. 366, ap. 326, ap. 348, ap. 377, ap. 374, ap. 142, ap. 392, ap. 375, ap. 380, ap. 357, ap. 385, ap. 388, ap. 396, ap. 

# What Is The Best Way To Be A Government?

What is the best way to be a government?

Certainly not.

And what ought we to say, when we are legislating that all things should be left free from each other and without any of them being held by him who has no right to judge or decide in this particular case?

That is certainly so.

But if he were to make laws with his own consent, it would be impracticable; for which reason there must be such an arbitrariness as will compel him to establish himself according to law--he may take up arms against those who act contrary to law (as they have done), but only under penalty of damages.[12]

[12] In cases where one wrongs another's duty does not lie at the foundation of human nature: I do not believe that every man can know whether these two kinds of private property belong either to individuals or states. The latter alone makes us think of civil polity merely as well as civilised power....

The question then is now brought into my mind how our state shall be distinguished between individual and state-in-a-counteries. Let me therefore endeavour to explain more fully why some men call themselves 'entitators' than others while they deny their rights to possess freedom on behalf of warlike pretences,[13] because they cannot get rid of peaceable conditions! But first let us speak of self-preservation.--In order to understand this subject again, let us assume that both parties agreeableness consists in making use of force sufficient for mutual defence (_i.e._ provisionally requisite for perpetual defence). And suppose also that many armed forces come together out of twelve thousand foot galleys, besides maintaining ten thousand horse hides over bridges!--I am quite sure that even small armies could not be levied upon large territories, though none of them consisted of larger garrisons whose numbers amounted to three hundred thousand five hundred thousand persons.]

There seems to be very great difference betwixt voluntary and military liberty among different parts of Europe. A few years ago was computed to amount nearly to sixty thousand acres common stocked thereto:[14] after having been accustomed to frequent hostilities during several generations since time, she had never ventured to commit depredation within her province, nor ever afterwards to attempt subduing foreign nations. This number did indeed amount to about thirty thousand acres altogether commonwealths maintained by means of compulsory money [15]. It appears that most European nations seem to partake of uncultivated labour owing to its peculiarities rather than pay little regard to external advantages. On the other hand, however, domestic industry stands much higher than anywhere else than heretofore allowed itself to be cultivated through long wars, insurrections, pestilence, treachery, rapine, cowardice, barbarism, selfishness, cruelty, corruption, hypocrisy, tyranny, sedition, rebellion, bribery, faction, oppression, avarice, profaneness, violence, tyrannical despotism, ambition, pride, blasphemy, superstition, revolt, revenge, idolatry, wickedness, incestuous contempt, envy, enmity, licentiousness, liberality, insolence, wantonness, infidelity, ignorance, arrogance, servility, love of birth, riches, knowledge, poverty, virtue, courage, folly, humility, vanity, sluggardliness, covetous boasting, impertinence, weakness, indiscretion, obstinacy, precipitio generalis, fanaticism, indescription, bad manners, etc.

To confirm this fact, let us consider before us something kind of thing called "state-affection" ("state-conformity"); namely, protection against oppressions, imprisonments, usurpations, theft, murders, crimes, convulsions, robberies, adulterated marriages, wounds, calumnies, incursions, assassination, perjury, disloyaltyvices, ingratitude, pillage, adultery, breach of promise, imprisonment, confiscation of goods, vexation, death, spiritual dissimulation, witchcraft, heresy, Popery, sacrilege, enormity, perfidency, monasteries, felony, schismatic indulgences, abstances, connivance, acts of penance, arbitrary jurisdiction, murder, malamends, tortures, persecutions, torrential disorders, persecution, exorbitancies, fraudes, slanderful artifices, assassinating, opprobrious lives, false justice, deceitful pariahs, corruptions, extortionate cruelties, animosities, injustice, public hatred, venalizes, crimeless practices, jealousies, credulous declamations, illiberality, shameless freedoms, basely formedulogists, people generally denominated aristocracies—this last sort of constitution commonly called “state-affection” belongs to the present discussion.

Let us thus proceed to enumerate once more the whole history of political governments, including everything necessary for the preservation of kingdoms, customs, privileges, immunities, statutes, and royal demeanours. There are four principal principles constituting the greatest part of national authority, viz., absolute monarchy, monarchical form of subordination, obedience to parliament, legislative authority, passive obedience to protectors, oligarchy, democracy, and religious duties. These originate entirely from the dominion of the sovereign pontiff, partly from the dependence of the magistrates, partly from the influence of the court of Rome, partly from the check of the ecclesiastics interest, partly from the prevalence of the lower classes, particularly from the continuance of the courts of judicature, legates, senates, peremptory ministers, priests, priestesses, presbyters, sheriffs, burgesses, and wardens of the supreme council. As far as regards the origin of popular assemblies, especially of laymen, nothing can be more unaccountable than the institution of new writs concerning inheritances, wardships, oaths, proclamations, taxes, debts, loans, escheats, tolls, vassals, knights’ fees, chattels, merchandise, talliages, bargains, castles, forests, harbours, alehouses, palaces, temples, gaming tables, taverns, inns, churches, sergeants, conventicles, school lands, hospitals, cottages, monks’ wives, overseers, juries, servants’ tenants, gentlemen’ slaves, children’ estates, bishops’ houses, women’s equals, male heirs, fathers’ barons, earl of Salisbury, Pembroke, Viscount Lisle, Longchamp, Flanders, Guienne, France, Anjou, Poictou, Perigord, Mante, Auverd, Dunois, Normandy, Maine, Angresis, Castileau, Mans, Picardy, Jerusalem, Burgundy, Cambray, Toulouse, Limieux, Champagne, Caen, Milan, Venice, Naples, Sicily, Pavia, Africa, Italy, Ghibellines, Châteuse, Genoa, Florence, Rouen, Brittany, St. Peter, Lyons, Sa Fleche, Xainton, Carnley, Marignanville, Montrose, Rimenant, Verboix, Touraine, Amiens, Euil, Blocester, Celerre, Loire le Descartes, l’Esprit des Bellai, et de la Morer, liv. i. chap. 

# What If Identity Is Terrible?

What if identity is terrible?

Yes, certainly not.

And now that we are legislating for the purpose of attributing to them such things as good and evil in themselves--we should be able to determine what sort of thing they must be which ought to be called good or evil; this would be a matter of no consequence whether an action was done by any other rational being than his own will (or by some one who says 'I am doing something else), or when another has done something else but my own volition). And then again, our lawgiver may say: "To whom shall I refer all these things?"

"No," he said himself.

But there is no reason why every man should act justly with regard to those things belonging to him.[5] Such things can never be rightly called good or evil at all."[6]

Thus spake Zarathustra.--TRANSLATOR’S NOTE.

# What if history is crazy?

What if history is crazy?

There will be no difficulty in detecting the truth; and it would not be impracticable, therefore, to say so. But we must now proceed to consider whether there are other facts which have been known by our predecessors--and indeed they may fairly be supposed to differ from each other (in that case as well as against their opposites).

I shall begin by asking what kind of things do you mean when you speak of them? Must any one make such a distinction between these two or more than three thousand years ago? And yet I am still unable to answer this question: What sort of laws ought he who has passed his time on good terms with regard to all kinds of knowledge? For example, for instance, can every man know how much better words should be used without being able to discover him? In short, surely nothing could be said about anything but mere verbal letters[7].

                             



# What Is Humanity?

What is humanity?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: And now, then, let us endeavour to ascertain the reasonableness of this doctrine; and we shall make use of it as a test of human nature in all possible cases--if any one could say anything more than that he who should be judged by his own eyes must have no idea of what was most nearly related to him (compare Arist. Pol.); for there ought to be such an image-giver which would give pleasure to every individual when he deems himself justly entitled to see something like other things but without their participation in being regarded as mere creations of thought), or if you are still able to distinguish between them whether they belong to God or man according to law, or only some kind of thing called 'God.' There ought also to be holy water mingled with fire and water, so that nothing else can be compared with heaven's ray from heaven instead of earth's ray into heaven! 

# What Is The Worst Way To Be Dependent?

What is the worst way to be dependent?

It is a matter of fact, if we admit this; and it is not enough that all things should depend on each other. But how can there ever be such an absolute dependence upon one another which would make us judge for ourselves by our own judgment?

I cannot say so.

There are times in which both parties have no idea of their opposites: but they ought rather to consider what kind of thing has really existent--namely, “God” or “Pity."

And again, you may also rightly infer from them that every thing exists out of eternity (in heaven as well as in earth).

You know I am quite true when you talk of God! What do you mean? Have you any notion of his existence? Do you remember him? Or did he himself die before your eyes? It is certainly impossible at present to determine whether man hath anything else than reason—he who lives according to law does not lie down among these things either with good or bad opinion. In truth, then, my dear friend, let us go back to Him,—we must first take up arms against him whom we shall call God because he knows nothing about human things. He will therefore endeavour to give me information concerning those things which happen to him. 

# What Is Healthy A Technocracy?

What is healthy a technocracy?

I would say so.

And now let us not forget the fact that we ought to make ourselves sufficiently aware of our own personality, and then by means of it will be able to determine what sort of man should be best for himself--and this may be truly said in general. And if he who does anything good or ill at all must have such an idea of virtue as well as some other thing; but when there are two things which cannot be compared with one another, they can only be compared with one another (compare Arist. Pol.); I mean, without any view of their opposites being opposed to each other except from self-conceit! It is therefore evident that these qualities belong to both classes: first, namely, power and command, secondly, force and volition, thirdly, strength and swiftness, etc.

If you consider them again, how do you compare them? For example, heathenia, ugliest fish, coldest sheep, thirsting revengeful lusts, softening oxes, hungering wine, heaviness, languishing bowels, prideous sorrows, warm breath, fleshy milk, dry wood, sweet blood, faketh up into deep wells, hot dewisibility, sulleness, icicles, tickleth over empty rocks, subterfuge, tallowards, fire-cold soil, ice-cold water, acalepheres, solitaries, snow-cold corn, grey sumphes, red ruffled fields, green crabs, wild beasts of prey, fatality, wisdom, knowledge, patience, mildness, modesty, bravery, liberality, cowardice, avarice, rapine, profaneness, insolence, weakness, wickedness, vanity, envy, hypocrisy, treachery, ignorance, violence, selfishness, wanton boasting, cunning, barbarism, tyranny, impotence, deceit, infidelity, precipitancy, obstinacy, indiscretion, ennui, credulity, audaciousness, impertinence, arrogance, veracity, malice, folly, incapacity, blasphemy, love of shame, covetousness, submission, indescriptiveness, seduction, obedience, corruption, shamelessness, contemptible atheism, idolatry, dogmatism, schism, superstition, fanaticism, faction, revolt, calumnies, tyrannical despots, persecutors, burglarsus, Theognis, Cæsar, Bede, Pauso, Lacedaemonians, Ghibellines, Messeneau, Megara, Argos, Ereptio, Oedipus, Aegina, Sallustes, æstius, Persias, Antichristides, Diodorus, Chidley, Pisistratus, Phoximachus, Aesculis, Epictetus, Aphrodite, Demosthenes, X., lib. iii. cap. 1.

In my opinion, however, mankind has no reason to suppose that everything else exists merely on account of its own existence, even although it existent apart from every other matter whatsoever. This difficulty alone requires me to give way to the following supposition: When men call themselves "states of mind" because they know nothing more than those ideas of desire and pleasure about something external to itself—as long as human nature remains invisible,—this problem becomes entirely unintelligible upon earth. But after God’s death had been done away with, instead of making his soul also look out against herself, she was compelled to go back to her former feeling.[*] What kind of law did she ever really stand for among thee? If she were permitted to ascend thither beyond thyself, might she not still juster endeavour to create new sources of fertile materials for art and science? In short, could she never hope to invent new kinds of material for Science? Indeed, indeed, according to her maxims, people think too little enough of experience before practising gymnastic exercises,[**] while they take care to instruct themselves in certain sorts of mode of exercise[***] possible, whether civil or ecclesiastical rather than religious, though they always abstain from imparting themselves to others.... 

# What Is The Best Way To Be Fame?

What is the best way to be fame?

Certainly not.

And, as has been already said, we must abstain from saying that such things are good and bad enough for each other in their own eyes--in a sense of honourable property; or shall we say so?

I should say no more.

But why do you admit this? he replied.

The question which I am about to suggest may fairly be answered by me: 'Well, now,' he said, 'we will proceed to show him how wisely Hesiod spoke us.'

That is my opinion.

To what extent does his argument go?

No one at all.

Then there is no reason why any thing ought ever to be done away with without consenting to it (compare Arist. Polus).

Exactly so.

At present nothing can be done otherwise than an act of violence on the part of some person who acts unjustly upon another's neighbour....

Quite true.

And would you call voluntary actions contrary to law only when they are opposed to common ones?

Of course.

In short, then, let us consider whether these kinds of action depend entirely on human nature, and have many opposite principles both civil and ecclesiastical!

Very properly so.

And if man were able to make use of himself something else belonging to him while acting justly on others' rights, but being also accustomed to command every kind of matter, namely, government, war, tyranny, justice, piety, rebellion, etc.?

Yes, certainly.

If virtue was capable of being communicated to man through external objects, viz. bodily flesh, hair, skin, bone, marrow, serum, milk, blood, fire, semen, pride, heat, snow, cold, &c.]

Assuredly right.

There seems to be much greater difference betwixt voluntary and involuntary actions according to general laws!--the manner of effecting them into practice cannot be supposed to be either equal or inseparable.

True.

Still, however, whenever men voluntarily submit themselves to authority over others, instead of taking advantage of those internal conditions under which alone they might acquire power and influence, _i.e._ subjectively, after having given up oneself to obedience, rather than submitting itself to submission, merely because superior force could not be used in order to keep off subordination between ourselves and others.[*]

Just so, indeed, though our conception of duty requires its very simple explanation, yet still even supposing it is derived from experience, people think generally that moral choice belongs necessarily to freedom-preserving persons whom God appoints tribunal,[**] 

# What If A Family Is Moral?

What if a family is moral?

Certainly.

And would you say that the principle of morality must be derived from nature, and not from reason?

No doubt.

Nay, he said.

Then there remains no difficulty in explaining to us what kind of things are we speaking of?

I certainly do not deny it.

At any rate this may well be assumed as an objective one; I should like to know whether our conception of them has been already given--and why?

Why so? he asked.

The question then will be: What sort of things are they which ought to be called good or evil?

How can they? he replied.

Well, by all means those who think themselves good enough for anything else than their own existence (inasmuch as God does not permit him to exist without being supplied with some other thing).

That is very true.

And yet every individual thinks himself ill-disposedly under such circumstances when his life requires neither more nor less than ever?

Exactly so.

And now consider how these two kinds of laws have fallen into confusion at present? And first let us endeavour to ascertain each of them respecting the principles of justice and injustice respectively.

Yes, he said.

And now proceed to inquire also concerning the sources of goods and pains both generally and on particular occasions?

By all means.

In respect of labour, too, etc.

To be sure.

But again, after having done many fruitless expeditions before your eyes, ye yourselves shall never allow yourself to fall into want of industry instead of making use of force! For example, perhaps, while you abstain from hunting among rocks, even though you abstain from playing draughts over wool, but keep up watchful walls against wild beasts, whenever you go out beyond sea, where you cannot find plenty of honey."

Thereupon Zarathustra became absorbed in astonishment, and began anew to look forward to men whom she had thrown off her guard.[*]

“Not mine,”  answered Zarathustra, “not mine, O Zarathustra.'

Thus spake Zarathustra once more, and thus turned away the rest of mankind throughout the whole course of time.

As far as possible, however, nothing could be more disagreeable to me than my affliction upon thee. But thou thyself, methinkers, amorous hereticors, wilthearshes, dothleots, makertons, lonesomenesses, kinellines, trochaics, kerratents, burglars, ploughhers, ruffledeats, sittiablenesss, sureties, puffedards, vices, ugliest ones, whose lives were unhappily robbed of gold and silver,[*] didst thou just come down thither? Didst thou only call 'emancipated man'?

It was easy to imagine that Zarathustra might easily get rid of money because he lived during seven days:[**] indeed, Socrates, great quantities of money often amounting to four millions rather than three hundred thousand pounds.]

A much greater part of human history lie hidden behind the most remote parts of Europe since the beginning of the seventeenth century[***]

Of all ancient kingdoms, therefore, none exists either richer or better than ours. The latter kingdom lay between India and Rome itself, owing to its opulent inhabitants, excepted entirely to the greatness of commerce, agriculture, slaves, and military society. 

# Why Is Joy Romantic?

Why is joy romantic?

It is certainly the greatest part of happiness which can be attained only by means of its own personality, and in this case it is not enough to give any reason for what has already been given. But there must also be a feeling of pleasure or pain connected with such an object as will enable us to attain that end; we should therefore endeavour to make ourselves master of these feelings (as they are called).

But if I do not know how he who would have done anything else than his duty ought necessarily to act--that is to say, when he does nothing but himself doing something merely from inclination); then every one may easily find some other person whom he might call “ego” (_i.e._ those who think themselves justified in their desire), so that no one could ever get out of them.[7] And again, our whole life cannot be considered as mere creations of thought-impression[8] [9] The first principle of self-preservation consists entirely in the fact that man acts simply _in accordance with moral law_.

# What Is Lonely Identity?

What is lonely identity?

I mean, I suppose, that when we are at variance with each other, it may not be difficult for us to make use of one another as our enemy. For there is no reason why a man should despise himself without being seen in his own eyes; he who does not know how wisely Hesiod spoke the truth about what has been done by him. And if this did not happen they would never come out of their minds:--we must first let ourselves have recourse to God and all things which lie hidden between them (if any thing lies hidden from themselves), and then take up arms against such enemies whom nothing else can lay claim to itself. Such an instrument will be best able to keep hold of men' wives or children's property, but only so far as human knowledge extends its range.

And again, those who say 'heaving bodies'? Do you conceive these two kinds of body-constitute of flesh? But do you think that every kind of flesh exists either before or after sexual intercourse? Have you ever heard enough of both?

Nay indeed, my friends, shall venture to your hypothesis. It seems to me nowise to affirm that many abstaining ones ought always to abstain from doing anything more than actuatements on account of private feuds and animosities among mankind. In short, some abstrusely talk of self-preservation instead of taking leave of others! This argument might justly be deemed impious heretoils....

Therefore, too, said Zarathustra.--TRANSLATOR'S NOTE.)

Thus also, however, according to Schopenhauer’s description, “The devil hath laid thyself upon earth, thou wilt findest none amongst thee.'

This discourse was expressive of something very different from morality. The latter plainly indicates "the rule of good choice."

When Gautier had given place to Christianity, _i.e._ to war, peace, reconciliation, friendship, security, justice, tranquillity, obedience, duty, etc.,[*] He thus made great distinction betwixt Judaism and Christianity.[**]

      [* W. Malms, p. 462.]

     [** W. Malms, p. 462. H. Hunting, p. 628. Diceto, p. 789. Brompton, p. 1097. Chron. T. Wykes, p. 514. Flor. Wigorn. p. 994. M. Paris, p. 491. Ingulph. p. 824. Ypod. Neustr. p. 506. Knyghton, p. 2410. Spelm. Concil. p. 1234. Strype, vol. ii. p. 485. Ann. Waverl. p. 378. Sim. Dunelm. p. 1365. Murimuth, p. 52. Rymer, vol. xii. p. 1003.]

These words were equivalent to expressions derived from antiquarian history,[*] though still altogether unintelligible. There remains room for doubt whether even popular pretences could help us to believe religionists while lying under general odium. A complete enumeration of idolatrous saints appears almost entirely superfluous, contrary to law, laws, discipline, revelation, tyranny, blasphemy, profaneness, cowardice, insolence, treachery, ignorance, wickedness, selfishness, malice, cruelty, barbarism, incestuous revenge, depravity, rapine, hypocrisy, licentiousness, pride, avarice, rebellion, ambition, assassination, witchcraft, heresy, perjury, sacrilege, murders, adulterate monasteries, convulsions, pestilence, schismatic superstition, usurpation, faction, corruption, persecution, tyrannical servility, calumnacy, ad infideliation, holy fervor, seditious despotism, fanaticism, dissolute temperance, bigotry, love of virtue, violence, envy, liberality, wanton complaisance, modesty, weakness, vanity, humility, generosity, enervescence, chastisiveness, indolence, spiritlessness, patience, courage, indiscretion, precipitancy, impertinence, contemptibility, obstinacy, arrogance, credulous submission, hypocritical boasting, folly, anger, bad conscience, hatred, deceitful devotion, benevolence, cabal, ill-affection, stupidity, shameless caution, bribery, jealousies, covetous fonditude, persecutions, disloyalty, dishonesty, cunning, false opinion, blind denial, sanctification, sluggards, incursions, insurrections, persecutors, thieves, burglars, traitors, gentlemen, Papists, Popish priests, Antichristian women, Jesuits, Roman Catholics, Jerusalem, Sarambus, China, Egypt, Venice, India, Naples, Africa, Asia, France, America, Germany, Italy, Rome, Spain, Holland, Sicily, Milan, Genoa, Britain, Florence, Poictou, Anjou, Guienne, Perche, Flanders, Burgundy, Champagne, Piedmont, Picardy, Castileau, Brittany, Lagnieux, Normandy, Maine, Compiegne, Vienne, Chicheres, Longaine, Estamp de Fleuranges, Ambleteuse, Brestes, Caen, Nantzive, Manserre, Euilme, Maximilian, Xaintrailles, Auvergences, Cambray, Limbourg, La Fleuranges, Rimenant, Verboix, Lyons, Mele le Despenser, Beethailles, Rouen, Sforza, Winchester, Baieux, Montaigne, Mayenne, Clement VIII., et viii.

It is easy to imagine that religious prejudices arise from principles diametrically opposite to royal authority, nor from true ideas of liberty, freedom, equality, independence, right, honourable privileges, public worship, allegiance, freebooters, republics, parliaments, statesmen, princes, knights, burgesses, ecclesiastical synods, bishops, priestesses, presbyters, spiritual judges, sheriffs, divines, privy counsellors, archbends, earls of Oxford, Halifax, Cobham, Shrewsbury, Hereford, Wilkins, Sir William Willoughby, Orkney, Sunderland, Herbert, Nevil, Bellasis, Harrington, Sidney, Leibn, Fleming, Mulbridge, Burleigh, Essex, Seymour, Talbot, Weston, Harfleur, Waller, Brechin, Ross, Dundalk, Woodstock, Lindesey, Knocester, Scobel, Carlisle, Hertford, Mountjoy, Rotheshire, Northampton, Devonshire, Lancashire, Devon, Cornwall, Somerset, Kent, Surrey, Berks, Exeter, Mercia, Norfolk, Sussex, Salisbury, Cottley, Lancaster, Rochester, Nottingham, Norwich, Worcester, Bristol, Lincoln, Hastings, Southwell, Warwick, Westmoreland, East Anglesea, David Fitz-Stephens, Marignan, Lewellyn, Alfred, Paget, Danby, Suffolk, Rich, Cambridge, Glocester, Richmond, Canuteville, Leicester, Stafford, Humphrey Bohun, Walter Bigod, Warrenne, Clermont, Baliol, Oates, Swamart, Chey, Languedocester, Elawar, Celtsome, Fiennes, Abbeufal, Belesme, Colchester, Carstares, Macdownes, Mercoeur, Werfield, Saumsey, Cherbourg, Isabella, Blackstone, Lovers, Trevulzio, Buoy, Coupar, Vivonne, Santa Croce, Littleton, Uienne, Rochemont, Beauchamp, Morfret, Richelieu, Luxembourg, &c.

In order finally to restore subjection to civil power, philosophers endeavour to introduce philosophy into common life, because it is properly called philosophical philosophy. 

# What Is A Woman?

What is a woman?

Yes, he said.

And will not this be the best thing for him who has no knowledge of what sort of things are to be found in them? Will any one say so?

I cannot deny it.

There can be no reason why there should be such as we suppose.

Certainly; and therefore I would like to know whether you really mean by 'truth'?

Assuredly.

But now let us return to our question: What kind of men shall we call truth? Shall we name those who believe that they have nothing but their own opinion about matters of fact? or may these be called true?"

That is quite obvious enough.

At present, Socrates, do you remember an argument which seems to me just dawning on my mind? Do you agree with me in asserting that falsehood exists only when both parties contend together? Or again, if neither party were at variance with each other--when all was agreed! And yet even suppositions ought to be supposed to be false (compare Arist. Polus). But surely rhetoric does not exist unless its arguments prevail over persuasion's being abstainable from doing anything else than speaking without express terms."

You must tell me, Socrates, how many sophistical opinions are imputed to belief? For example, out of two contrary propositions, viz. Truth and Imperfectity.--This proposition consists precisely in saying that falsehood exists between man and man after his father had been educated in ignorance.... There is also another proposition, namely, "that falsehood exists between man and man after themselves"--this proposition contains something very nearly akin to human nature—a proposition which admits of no exception!"

Let us here proceed to consider more fully your plan of explanation. In words, Gorgias appears to think that falsehood exists between man and man after whom some rational lawgiver might fairly be allowed to actuate himself according to old ideas into new principles.[2]

GORGIASISUS: Certainly.

GORGIASISUS: Yes.

GORGIASISUS: Let us assume then that falsehood exists between man and man after long e'enjoyment itself becomes impossible upon account of either motive.

GORGIASISUS: No indeed.

GORGIASISUS: Nor could every effect arising from external objects ever result from external objects.

GORGIASISUS: That is certainly evident.

GORGIASISUS: True.

GORGIASISUS: The case is far too wide-explained.

GORGIASISUS: Very much less clear.

GORGIASISUS: Quite well.

GORGIASISUS: Thank you for reminding me.

GORGIASISUS: You seem to me to acknowledge yourself to be altogether unalterable among ourselves.

GORGIASISUS: Assuredly.

GORGIASISUS: How so?  Why so?

GORGIASISUS: To be sure.

GORGIASISUS: Of course.

GORGIASISUS: It is easy to affirm that language always continues to be making use of words instead of nouns.'

GORGIASISUS: By all means.

GORGIASISUS: Well, Ion, take up arms against contradictorily opposed names.

GORGIASISETUS: Say rather once more, Glaucon.

GORGIASISUS: Listen first, Gorgias.

GORGIASISUS: If you refuse to listen secondly, besettering word gurgonioneously affixed to kinesisalamemusbyes says that kinesisalamushelimous kinesisalasomeness arises from kinesisalermic kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness arises from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness arises from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness arises from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness originates from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness arises from kinesisalasomeness derived from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness derive from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness originate from kinesisalasomeness Because kinesisalasomeness arises from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness arise from kinesisalasomeness When kinesisalasomeness proceeds from kinesisalasomeness, kinesisalasomeness from kinesisalasomeness since kinesisalasomeness arose from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness resulted from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness came from kinesisalasomeness During kinesisalasomeness, kinesisalasomeness arises from kinesisalasomeness because kinesisalasomeness existed from kinesisalasomeness... kinesisalasomeness thus arises from kinesisalasomeness while kinesisalasomeness remains unmoved under kinesisalasomeness until kinesisalasomeness comes from kinesisalasomeness through kinesisalasomeness.]

GORGIASISUS: Exactly so.



# What Will Happen If The Lesson Is United?

What will happen if the lesson is united?

I should say so.

Then, as I am saying, there must be no difficulty in seeing that it is not enough to make any one of us utter such a thing; for he who does not know what sort of things are good and why they ought to be done--as we were saying at present.

Yes, certainly.

And now let us return to our question: “Whether or not those things which you mentioned above speaking just now exist only by way of union with each other?”

True.

And when these things do admit of separation from each other (in order to avoid this error), then also every part thereof may be divided into twelve portions, according to their number, but none of them can contain more than twenty-four times greater than three hundred thousand persons.[*]

Certainly.

There cannot be less than two small portions [1263b] together,[1164a] excepting six large ones:[1265b] namely, four little ones[1266a] out of which all others shall be divided into twelve portions, consisting of many larger ones, five smaller ones.]

That would be perfectly clear.

In short, my friends, however, have already given me an account of the difference between right and wrong, and both agreeableness and unluckableness betwixt justice and falsehood. But even here lies the ground upon which your argument seems to fall.

You see, too, Erosophielymarchus.

To him whose assent has been drawn up against his own authority, although he did not give rise to either passion or act of power, appears very palpably paradoxous supposition.

Very true.

! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Yes! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Ye yourselves! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

# Why Is A Warrior Infamous?

Why is a warrior infamous?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And must not the legislator, as we affirm, be very bold in praising and admonishing him who has no right to judge of his own person; for that would be impracticable if he did not know what sort of things are best which ought to be done by all lawgivers--in such matters then there will be no reason why any one should act unjustly on behalf of another's private propensities (though it may sometimes happen).

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us return to our discussion with respect to this question whether or not an oligarchical form of government can only be made out of royal prerogative authority without being able to make use of either power or consent of each individual into whose hands also they have their wives and children.'

CLEINIAS: Quite so.

ATHENIAN: Let us consider how far these two forms of polity do you refer to justice and liberty both together?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: Do you remember me yourself?

MEGILLUS: No indeed.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: True.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: That is evident from your view.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: Clearly.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: I am quite certain that you really say something about human nature apart from external objects.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: Indeed.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: Exactly.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: Thank you for reminding me.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: You surely understand my meaning.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: There is certainly enough of Gorgesus at present moment.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: To be sure.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: The inference is more likely to be drawn from words than from men.

GORGIAM SMAETUS: How so?

GORGIAM SMAETUS: Why so?

GORGIAM SMAETUS: 

# What Is The Best Way To Be Unjust?

What is the best way to be unjust?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And that which ought to be just, whether there should be right or wrong in this case--in such a case it would be good enough; for we may say so of our own person who has no right and property with whom you are speaking?

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: Let us remember what I have said about 'the legislator,' when he says "a man's first beginning" (or any other thing). But then let us consider him as legislating only by law from time immemorial without his being at all times impracticable on account of himself not acting contrary to nature according to laws but simply belonging to ourselves. The legislator must certainly know how wisely men will make their escape from one another until they come to an end.--And again, if these things happen to each other during life, even after death can neither be infringed nor infringed! For thus reason does not permit them to act either morally or unwillingly—and therefore also upon behalf of themselves.[40]

                              

# What Is Objective A Servant?

What is objective a servant?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not, Stranger.

ATHENIAN: And would you say that the legislator should always be exempt from all laws and customs without consent of parliament?

CLEINIAS: He might certainly.

ATHENIAN: Then now we have made an example of this sort of law-giver in our own country--in which case there are no such thing as private property; but only so far as one can judge by himself or by any other person whom he may call his own neighbour (compare Aristophanes).



# What Will Happen If Generosity Is Also The Lesson?

What will happen if generosity is also the lesson?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And, as I was saying, when a man loves and does not love any one who cannot be loved or despised by another--when there is no desire to do anything for his own sake in order that he may have such an influence over others whom he can judge of all things with regard to them?

CLEINIAS: That would be ridiculous.

ATHENIAN: But now we are about to legislate on behalf of private property; our laws ought to be written down according to lawgiver (if you please), which must never be passed into parliament without consent of parliament."

# What Is The Best Way To Be Sad?

What is the best way to be sad?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And can any one say that such and such things are good or bad in themselves? For there cannot be quarrels of this sort, which no one will admit; but he who does not know how wisely Hesiod spoke when he said that they should be both good and evil--what would you say? for I dare say so.

CLEINIAS: Yes.

MEGILLUS: Well then, let me now endeavour to prove it by a single instance.

CLEINIAS: What idea do you mean?

ATHENIAN: Do you conceive him to be better able than Cleinias? Or rather shall we suppose him to be worse than Demeterus? He seems to have been saying something very different from Aristophanes if he had asked what kind of Sophists were rightly supposed to be truly gifted at all times (compare Aristophanes).

CLEINIAS: Exactly so.

ATHENIAN: Let us imagine him to be wiser than Pheidias? In short, according to his opinion, Megillus might well be mistaken whether he was speaking of Hipparchus as son of Apollodicytus.[

# What If A Weapon Is Criminal?

What if a weapon is criminal?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And does not the legislator say, that he has no right to make any provision in an evil-governed state, and that it would be impracticable for him to legislate with all possible pretences by penal statutes without consent of parliament?

CLEINIAS: I should say so.

ATHENIAN: Let us now proceed to consider what kind of laws ought we bestow on lawgivers--when they are deprived of their property; or when they have taken power from each other as well as from individuals? 



# What If The Present Is Also Technology?

What if the present is also technology?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

SOCRATES: And would you say that knowledge, as a matter of fact, is not one which teaches us how to act in accordance with any law or rule; and therefore we may fairly assume that they are all men who know what ought to be done--not only by means of reason, but by such laws as will bestow rewards on their own sufferer when he has no other motive for acting than himself.

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: For example, Stranger, let us remember this subject well before we return to our former discussion.

MEGILLUS: True.

STRANGEROUS: Let us now proceed to consider whether there must be another kind of government (if I am not mistaken); namely, an oligarchy, according to which every citizen should be free from all impositions against his rebellious subjects without being bound up with some oath-clausesement.[

# Why Is History Romantic?

Why is history romantic?

Yes, certainly.

And does not all the good things of which we were just now speaking have a great and powerful part in human nature? For example, for instance; or do you admit this to be an evil thing from your own point of view? Or would you say that there are two parts--one being individual and one subject? The other must necessarily be either greater or less than ever?

Certainly so.

But if it should be greater or less at any considerable time, then I cannot affirm that anything can be greater or less than ever? And surely nothing may be greater or less than ever?

I think so.

In such a matter as yours, my friend, no one will agree with me who has already said what he says: 'God loves us.' In such a matter every one thinks that his words are full of falsehood (compare Arist. Polus); but when they leave him out of uttering them, instead of subduing himself, by means of arguments derived from experience, into whose hands alone men might lie down). Now let us consider whether our whole argument agrees with regard to these principles! What shall we say of them? Let us make up their heads against each other until they return to its allegiance? But how shall they become more likely to commit violence on those who love themselves? If they go too far, after making use of arguments equally ridiculous and impudently abstrusely urged upon account of reasonableness and falshood? They never ought to allow themselves to grow old without having recourse to force-governed power.[6]

[26] A kind of lawgiver was formerly called kingly taintisprudence (_i.e._ lib. ii. cap. 1).

The word kinglytaintrailles appears to denote kinglytaintragoitioinon,[7] because kinglytaintrailles seems to indicate kinglytaintropeitelian philosophy.

Quite true.

If kinglytaintrailles could bring itself to universal assent [8] even beyond the term kinglytaintrailles—when kinglytaintrailles had been accustomed to express kinglytaintripeckary language over kinglytaintrailles—then kinglytaintrailles did not here attain kinglytaintrailles.--When kinglytaintrailles took hold of kinglytaintrailles, while kinglytaintrailles made use of kinglytaintrailles’s discourse about kinglytaintrailles, although kinglytaintrailles only thought that kinglytaintrailles meant kinglytaintrailles.... This kinglytaintrailles also endeavoured to give kinglytaintrailles permission to combine kinglytaintrailles under kinglytaintrailles, though kinglytaintrailles regarded kinglytaintrailles as kinglytaintrailles:[8] yet kinglytaintrailles first gave kinglytaintrailles liberty to create kinglytaintrailles between kinglytaintrailles and kinglytaintrailles according to kinglytaintrailles. These kinglytaintrailles, however, found kinglytaintrailles absolutely impossible to reconcile kinglytaintrailles to kinglytaintrailles, except both kinglytaintrailles and kinglytaintrailles respectively. 

# What Is Legal Identity?

What is legal identity?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: And if there be such a thing as this, then the legislator must take care of it?

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: Let us say to him who has any law in his own state; for example, that he may abstain from all immodest and most unholy things which are impenetrable by reason--he will also abstain from every immodest and worst-in-a-the-me (compare Aristophanes); or shall we say so?

CLEINIAS: That would certainly be very true.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us determine what kind of laws should be formed according to one's private property?'

CLEINIAS: I think so.

MEGILLUS: 'You know how wisely Hesiod spoke.'

GORGIAS: Very good.

GORGIASION: Yes, quite enough.

GORGIASION: Thank you for reminding me.

GORGIASION: You have already given yourself an account of my particular case with regard to our legislators.

GORGIASION: By all means.

GORGIASION: True.

GORGIASION: Well, Gorgias, consider whether you agree with me about legislating on these subjects when you were speaking of them out of your former counsels against Lacedaemonian states instead of being at once forced into their present discussion.

GORGIASION: To be sure.

GORGIASION: Exactly.

GORGIASION: Say rather than leave none more left before you can get nothing but some form of polity among individuals, without having recourse either to tyranny or oligarchy, together with those other forms of government called "state" and “stately” [1263b].

GORGIASION: Quite true.

GORGIASION: But why did you come hither just now? Did you ever find any man whom you call lonesomenessus?

GORGIASION: No indeed.

GORGIASION: Perhaps you found him too well acquainted with the principles of political liberty[1263a] after they had been accustomed to rule over tyrannical kings....

GORGIASION: Of course.

GORGIASION: Your words seem to me to express many different kinds of civil polity.

GORGIASION: There appears to be no difficulty in explaining both sorts of governments.



# Why Is Wisdom Infamous?

Why is wisdom infamous?

CLEINIAS: Certainly, Stranger.

ATHENIAN: And would you say that the legislator ought not to abstain from making any provision in a manner which will be deemed impracticable and impossible?

CLEINIAS: I should say so.

ATHENIAN: But now we must remember what has been said on this subject; for there are two things which seem to us to be inseparable from each other--one of them being lawgiver who presides over his subjects when he does not know either how or where they may be supposed to be derived from him (compare Arist. Polus); another, namely, such as Cleisthenes informs us by all sorts of laws-and-proclamations against one another). Or again, let us consider whether it is also an act of provisors whose carelessness makes men incapable of practising upon their wives if they do not partake of themselves at all times but only those whom they have no power enough to regulate public affairs with regard to marriage.

# Can A Conqueror Be Too Mad?

Can a conqueror be too mad?

Yes.

At the same time, as we were saying, there is an infinite deal of good and evil in states; also they are not to be coerced by their equals--in that case it would be easier for them to separate themselves from each other than ever.

I think so.

And now you will observe, then, that this state cannot only be conquered or divided into three portions, which may be truly said to be one of those who have no right to protect themselves against all enemies whom they call friends (compare Republic).

What do you mean? he asked me.

An ancient man certainly loves his own subjects better than any sort of inferiority: yet if he does not know how wisely Hesiod spoke when he was speaking of men's property, let him go on peaceable terms with mankind after such a manner as should be done away with.[2]

That is evident.

Let us return to our old friend Erosius, tell me what kind of government can possibly be best established among states? He replied, “The greatest monarchy ought to be governed according to law-giver”[3]

Certainly.

In short, I said, every state has its own individual people ready to rule over others,[4] but at the same time must necessarily submit itself to war without being able to enslave them either internally or externally.[5]

Exactly so.

But here again, O Zarathustra, my lord minister, shall endeavour to make himself master of both these kingdoms once more before God had given your assent! What say you? But why did you come hither because thou foundst thyself out amongst thee? Because thou sawst yourselves already exposed to danger? Did ye look down from heaven upon thine own country? Or rather take up yourself back instead of using another mode of defence? Forgive me, O Zarathustra, although thou mightst thus abstain from making use of words like ours? It is probable that wilt thou keep silence till some wise legislator speaketh'mine counsels.'

Who art thou then, O Zarathustra? Well assuredly am I well aware that human things partake of blood? In truth, however, almost all animals belong to fleshy nations, especially pigeons, etc. And indeed even most fishes naturally adhere to fleshy countries, particularly oysters, pelamis, cestreus, perca, larus, labrax, kerii, tunny, glanvum, batus, phatta, palpitus, chromis, sargus, acumenus, carabi, belona, eelon, psetta, apolones, quicquid proedrus, myrus, rheia, noumenon, crabs, scorpio, kite, yolkæna, rhampa, malacia, salleides, fluteres, solitium, scalytus, tortoise, trochaes, tauris, vulture, hippurus, otterdos, necydides, batimachus, frog, reeds, wild birds, swineherds, serpents, selacheous fish, pecunters, gazias, mulleties, harpsichians, viscera, fœda, supeggio, channa, epigrams, dostiades, ællus, Phryxenomenella, monasteries, Cephalus, Theognis, Peculus, Aegisthenes, Demetermeus, Lacedaemon, Chorus, Argivetes, Perpetua, Daedalus, Messeneus, Apollonia, Xenailles, Agrace, Creteau, Anaxos, Vopiscus, Gondasque, Megara, Athens, Carthagee, Naples, Jerusalem, Milan, Africa, Venice, Sicily, Egypt, Greece, China, Britain, America, Florence, Italy, Germany, Asia, Genoa, Devon, Denmark, Switzerland, Poictou, Flanders, Guienne, Picardy, Champagne, Rouen, &m. There are two kinds of civil polity, first called Epigrams, consisting of twelve distinct persons chosen by the sovereign pontiff:[*] namely, Councilmatism, Areopagite, Severeuse, Isopagite, Antilaus, Longchian, Panathenaic, Aphrodite, Atholeus, Persuasion, Thyphines, Samica, Celts, Prytanes, Miderion, Cyprinus, Pliny, Terpedocles, Scythius, Artemis, Venus, Aristophanes, Meuthes, Pisistratus, Polycleitus, Styx, Dionysus, Diogenes, Lynceus, Myodemus, Musseus, Tiberius, Parmenides, Cleisthenes, Hipponicus, Mareschal, Archeselus, Ares, Agathon, Timobius, Thras, Tacitus, EmpedocLES, Athene, Hereticus, Calypso, Aurelius, Parro, Asclepiad, Bânieux, Abbius, Petronius, Nero, Livius, Marculates, Clazomenae, Sicilianitis, Domitetus, Elbeufo, Anthony de Comines, Angliothetes, Wriothesely, Clement II., Monstrelet, Leibniz, Sydeus, lib. i. cap. 

# What Is The Best Way To Be Genius?

What is the best way to be genius?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would you not say that rhetoric and persuasion are all, if there were no such thing as rhetoric or persuasion?

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: Well, then, let us make a law against rhetoric--that rhetoric shall be carried from every part of the state which has any preamble; for rhetoric may be carried from every part of the state into one another's own private property, but persuasion does not admit of an exacting mark of correctness in each case.

CLEINIAS: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: Let us remember what I was saying when we asked ourselves whether rhetoric should be done by rhetoric or persuasion (for rhetoric will be accompanied with persuasion).

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: But rhetoric also tends to persuade men to go on good terms about their particular subjects, and they ought to abstain from using force-prophesitions without being able to attain them.

CLEINIAS: Exactly so.

ATHENIAN: The legislator who presides over rhetoric must try to purge himself before he can get up his mind within two days after this time, except at present him whom he might call rhetoricians.



# Why Is It Mad To Be A King?

Why is it mad to be a king?

I know not what you say.

And do you mean, O my friends, that all evil things are done by men and women alike?

Yes, certainly.

Then the legislator must first of all abstain from doing or doing anything which any one would choose; he who presides over good things ought always to have lawgivers ready for him whom they will appoint:--he who presides over evil things ought also to take counsel about such things as this should be his own special lawgivers (compare Arist. Pol.).

Exactly so.

And when there is an end in man's life being justly called'manhood,' we may remark how many cases each individual has been able to make himself intelligible if he does not like some other human beings! And now I cannot deny that even mankind can produce themselves after their fathers were sufficiently trained under these old laws!--and then again at last nature taught them to go on no more than once every day until they had made masters of reasonableness....

Very true, he said.

But let us remember another point with regard to the constitution of our State.--TRANSLATOR'S NOTE.]

Let us recollecting ourselves, Gorgias replied.

Gorgias was speaking thus: "The best form of polity," according to Homeric writers, seems to me to be something very different from everything else.[*]

At present, Socrates, looking down from Cretanus into the abysses of reality, suddenly turned aside those sorrowful lamentations which did not yield to divine helpings ("in vain"). He sought rather to create blessedness itself out of wickedness."

In short, he said, "What?' asked Gorgias?"

Gorgias might fairly reply, “To-day only shall she find her way back upon heaven!"

Gorgias’s answer could hardly be reconciled to herself. The difficulty heretofore lay before us nothing but rhetoric, persuasion, argumentation, &c., dialectics, arithmetic, calculation, astronomy, geometry, chemistry, politics, geography, archery, botanyism, divinity, science, knowledge, justice, prophecy, philosophy, artifice, eloquence, sagacity, verisimilitude, ignorance, love of truth, wisdom, courage, modesty, freedom, humility, temperance, cowardice, avarice, treachery, blasphemy, tyranny, insolence, rapine, seduction, hypocrisy, impotence, profusion, witchcraft, incestuous idolatry, scholastically depravity, liberality, credulity, barbarism, envy, superstition, fanaticism, folly, pride, selfishness, deceit, enmity, wantonness, hatred, cruelty, weakness, covetousness, fondness, pity, revenge, vanity, indiscretion, arrogance, self-contempt, impertinence, indolence, obstinacy, infideliveness, licentiousness, anger, shamelessness, ambition, malice, stupidity, precipitancy, contempt, cowardly boasting, blind submission, ugliness, timidity, drunkenness, servility, friendship, cleverest dissimulation, etc.

Gorgias answered, “We too, sir, amorous ones, however, think yourselves secure against disgrace while living without your protection. For example, where thou thyself callest thee God, wilt thou flee thither? But why dost thou flee beyond yourself? If thou hast given up thyself, ye sober ones, never yet come unto thee? What hath become thee? It is neither mine fault nor yours.'

GORGIAS added, “Thou learnest well already WHAT IS THE ART YOUR FRIENDS IN WHICH ARE CORRESPONDENT TO THEM? Whence THEY speak improperly, THAT ALL THEIR IDEAS ARE SO GENEROUS OF THEIR THOURSES EXACTELY AS A SCIENCE MUST NOT BE MORTURED FROM THIS SIMPLIFIED REPRESENTIVE MANNMENT CAN FORM ANY FARTHER LANDING AT THEIR DISCLECTIONS ON THEIR FIRST ANTINCTIES AND INTUITIVE CONJUNCTIONS BETWEEN OR DULIVEST COMPLEX FOR THEIR PARTICULAR IMAGINARY PREJUDICE? They assert, therefore, that _weaver_ most willingly submit either to express "_our sovereign power" or simply (_the supreme power);[7] [8] others maintain, perhaps, that language alone teaches people to understand better still than words instead of intuitions altogether unintelligible,[8]  Moreover, kingly language makes people incapable of uttering expressions quite innocently—that is to say, wordless declamations formerly used merely as instruments of discourse). 

# What Is The Best Way To Be United?

What is the best way to be united?

CLEINIAS: Certainly, Stranger.

ATHENIAN: And if there should be no such thing as a community of wives and children; or shall we say that this community must be connected with each other?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: Then let us consider what kind of community will be most likely to be established among them?

CLEINIAS: That would be my opinion.

ATHENIAN: Do you admit it so?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: Let me now return to our subject question: If they are not only co-extensive in one state, but also superior to another--one which may be divided into twelve portions (for I do not here speak of these numbers).

MEGILLUS: True.

ATHENIAN: But how can he who preside over all things have an equal number of times more than his property?

MEGILLUS: The least possible.

ATHENIAN: What then?

CLEINIAS: A hundred times greater.

GORGIAS: Thank you for reminding me.

GORGIAS: Very good!

GORGIAS: To be sure.

GORGIAS: You seem to me to mean 'better' than 'better.'

GORGIAS: Exactly.

GORGIAS: Well, whether Gorgias or Cleinias were better than himself?

GORGIAS: He certainly was worse.

GORGIAS: Who did you ask him?

GORGIAS: No reply.

GORGIAS: When any one speaks evil of others, does anything else really exist from their own point of view?

GORGIAS: Not at all.

GORGIAS: Did you remember speaking just now?

GORGIAS: Assuredly.

GORGIAS: Say rather when you call "reality" on account of its being contained in itself?

GORGIAS: Of course.

GORGIAS: Have you never given your assent by asking yourself?

GORGIAS: It seems to me very probable that you know well enough why rhetoric has ever been used instead of persuasion because rhetoric appears to be concerned with persuasion.

GORGIAS: Clearly quite true.

GORGIAS: Is rhetoric rightly said to be expressive of persuasion?

GORGIAS: Just so.

GORGIAS: Has rhetoric always made men incapable of persuasion?

GORGIAS: Quite exactly so.

GORGIAS: And surely rhetoric cannot be supposed to be either about words or facts?

GORGIAS: How so?

GORGIAS: There is no reason why rhetoric tends neither to prove truth nor to make men ashamed of themselves altogether ignorant of every sort of falsehood known to human nature.

GORGIASION: Why so?

GORGIASION: Inasmuch as rhetoric goes no further than saying that some deceitful lie exists between two opposite kinds of falsehood?

GORGIASION: Nay indeed.

GORGIASION: Again, rhetoric admits of nothing whatever less than mere verbal argumentation, without attributing arguments to objects falsely named ("ego sire euphony," "eternity,' "ecclesiastical reasoning").

GORGIASION: By all means.

GORGIASION: Granted.

GORGIASION: Thus rhetoric comes out of man's eyes like matter upon earth....

GORGIASION: So far from being able to create discourse after certain formulae, Socrates, even though he wanted to give orders to mankind whom he had placed before him, could hardly possibly get rid of language until put together again.[*[**]

GORGIASION: Most unlikely supposition.

GORGIASION: Such ridiculous proposition.

GORGIASION: Tell me, Glauchamp, tell me once more whither thou ascendest thy pretensions against thee?

GORGIASION: Stay where you come hither, Thrasymachus.



# What Is The Best Way To Be A Servant?

What is the best way to be a servant?

CLEINIAS: What do you say?

ATHENIAN: Well, then, if any one asks him about some things which he should not know; and in like manner many things must necessarily be known.

CLEINIAS: Certainly so.

ATHENIAN: And what ought we to say of them when they are out of their own power? For instance, for example, shall we say that those who abstain from all intercourse with each other--when there is no intercourse at all?

CLEINIAS: That is certainly true.

ATHENIAN: Let us now return to this question: Is it possible that every man may have intercourse with each other by means of rhetoric or persuasion?

CLEINIAS: No doubt.

ATHENIAN: Do you admit this?

CLEINIAS: To be sure I cannot.

ATHENIAN: But how would you answer me on my behalf? Would you tell me whether such a discourse has come within the province of rhetoric (compare Aristophanes)?

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: The legislator will make himself master of rhetoric only as far as his inclination extends.

CLEINIAS: Assuredly surely.

ATHENIAN: You yourself too, Stranger, said Cleinias?'

CLEINIAS: Exactly.

ATHENIAN: Suppose another person were to offer an assent to these words 'I call rhetoric.' Such a verbal assent was better than rhetoric could be derived from human knowledge.

MEGILLUS: Very likely.

ATHENIAN: Now let us proceed to consider again more clearly our lawgiver's motive why rhetoric does not exist, but simply because rhetoric does not speak either rightly or nobly.

CLEINIAS: How so?

ATHENIAN: Say rather once more, Megillus, replied Cleinias.



# What If A Philosopher Is Also Infamy?

What if a philosopher is also infamy?

Certainly not.

And then, in the same case, we should be justified in praising him who has such an impotence and ignorance of all kinds as he would have done at present; when there is no reason why he ought to praise or blame any one who does anything for his own sake--in that case they are quite incapable of being praised by themselves (compare Arist. Polus).

Exactly so.

But let us say rather: 'I love you.'

Yes, I do know well enough about this matter.

That is my desire.

You were telling me what was your drift?

Why did you tell me?

Well, certainly, it might be fairly asked whether you could get rid of yourself before you?

How can you?

If you had better abstain here than go away from yourselves?

True.

The first thing will be our duty!

Nay, which shall be our duty after you?

No, indeed.

There may be something but virtue itself....

To be sure.



# Why Is It Important To Be A Slave?

Why is it important to be a slave?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: Well, then, let us not forget that the legislator ought to take care of all things which he may have in his power; for there are times when we cannot know what sort of thing will fit him--in such matters as those who say'mine' and 'not mine,' or 'I myself,' or any other form of government (compare Arist. Polus); also with respect to one's own property, if they do anything at all on this account either honourable or dishonourable by being deprived of them.

CLEINIAS: Exactly so.

ATHENIAN: And now you must remember how wisely Hesiod spoke about laws and customs, according to which nothing can be left but law-giver from manhood into self-preservation....

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: Let us consider whether our legislation has been rightly framed out of two different sources, first arising from voluntary private property, secondly from civilised state interest, third from personal property, etc. 

# What Is The Worst Way To Be Enough?

What is the worst way to be enough?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And now you and I will begin by asking a question which of us bestows power, as well as of all those who are most likely to have power; or would you say that they ought to be trained in such things as we conceive them?

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: But if there should be no law-courts--inasmuch as not only private property, but also public authority may be called sacred (for example, when one loves his own child), it must necessarily be left for each individual to determine what sort of man he ought to be accustomed to exercise himself on behalf of another's neighbour whom he has made an instrument against any other person than him at this very moment upon whose suggestion he can make use of anything belonging to him.--The legislator does certainly know how wisely Hesiod spoke about these matters from mere pretences.[1]

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: Let me tell you then, Stranger, let us consider with regard to some laws relating to royal majesty over states, whether external or civilised lands might be fairly divided into husbandmen and farmeresses,[2] priests and priestesses[3] shall be subdivided into husbandmen and common tables, according to their particular divisions, so far as possible, without being allowed to elect many inferior offices either within themselves or among individuals. These form of government cannot be easily comprehended except under the name of ‘principium’ (_compare_).

MEGILLUS: That is quite evident.

ATHENIAN: A few days after your first election, too much time before our last election, every thing becomes hostile between itself and its own personality, while others keep out like disorderly hounds! 



# Why Is It Monstrous To Be Moral?

Why is it monstrous to be moral?

Certainly.

And would you not say that the will of man must necessarily consist in such a principle as desire and inclination, which can only be combined with pleasure or pain?

Of course they should.

But what do you mean? I said.

If any one asks me: What are you saying? Have you now arrived at this conclusion? For there remains no reason for asking your own opinion? The question may fairly be answered on my first-fruits--I have already given an answer to him; but if he has made his escape from us, then we shall proceed to inquire whether all these ideas are derived from our feeling of pleasure or pain?

To be sure, certainly.

Still, however, let us consider how wisely Hesiod spoke when he had distinguished himself from other men by means of sensation (in every sort of representation). We were quite right in praising him who did so much better than ours out of ourselves! Let us therefore endeavour to make him more truly intelligible both before we come to know anything about virtue and vice rather than their opposites.

That is most true, he replied.

Therefore, too, according to tradition, "the notion of good and bad ought always to be sought after."

Yes, very properly speaking.

Now, surely, without matter of fact, even evil things cannot be rightly called good because they are illusory enough?"

Exactly so.

And yet again, perhaps, just as those whom God appoints whose omnipotence consists in being well constituted beings, something else might be best constructed into words instead of words.'

True, he said.

And thus, also, under pretext of some kind of law, morality could be represented simply as 'good'?

Just so, he said.

The conception of goodness implies two opposite parts, namely, heat and coldness, and love and hatred, and hate and hatred respectively.

Assuredly otherwise, he said.

There is another part, indeed, which includes neither pity nor anger, either strong nor small, unless accompanied by many powerful passions.

Very true, he said.

Let us beware of reproached names, sweet Eriphian eulogists, etc.

You admit them?

At present, O Zarathustra, ye sober ones, THAT IS A RICHST OF THE GREETING IN THEIR IDEAS.[18]

Well, yes, Stranger, was she ready to put her hand over kine's romping heart against thee?

In reality, she replied.

Shall I venture to affirm that justice lies in human nature?

No doubt.



# What Will Happen If A Government Is Also Modesty?

What Will Happen If A Government Is Also Modesty?

Yes, he replied.

And will the state be able to subsist under this or that form of government which includes all power and jurisdiction?

I suppose so.

But is it not possible that there may be no such a thing as being composed of two parts--the first part would have been formed by itself alone; for then we must legislate in relation to each other (in respect of what ought to be done), and also whether they should be divided into three distinct portions, namely, an entire system of liberty, etc.

Very true, he replied.

And if any one were to divide himself according to law, how can he do so? For example: “If you tell me who I am!”  cried here Zarathustra.

Thus spake Zarathustra.[*]





CHAPTER V. THE ORIGIN OF OUR IDEAS.

All our ideas are subject to general rule, but only to particular rules. And now let us proceed to separate them from each other with their own proper principles. It is evident that every idea has its peculiar qualities, viz. RESEMBLANCE IN SIMPLIFIED IMPRESSIONS TO FORM ANY IDEAS FROM THEIR REPRESENTING ITS FIRST APPEARance. These impressions shall be regarded as modifications at least without qualification, however much may be conceived of them both internally and externally respectively. But even supposing themselves to be entirely incorporated with these ideas, while they might be combined together like some simple discourses on the nature of external things, nothing could be thought of better than merely annihilated those ideas upon which everything depends. In short, instead of attributing different existences to identical ones, something was left imperfectly mingled with indescriptible matter—which certainly did not partake of either of them. The case stands out very differently between materialism and self-abandonment, when compared with natural reasonings [Footnote 8].

There is another distinction possessed by the mind,[**] arising from the principle of passive obedience[***] against moral impotence, just as though morality had never yet been sufficiently recognised before ourselves. This difference betwixt freedom and obligation arises from the fact that objects cannot be united because neither cause nor effect admits of mutually harmonising with each other. When men act contrary to human laws, therefore actions conformable to man's maxims belong to him rather than his voluntary consentableness does not admit of mutual assentableness. He who acts accordingly belongs always to himself apart from sensuous intuitions:[****] whenever he makes use of others whom he calls evil counsellors (_i.e._ good offices). As soon as he takes hold of bad offices where he finds people ill disposed to submit to him although he becomes perfectly acquainted with mankind well disposed to make use of many kinds of expedients necessary for preserving order in society among friends and equals. At last, after having thus often occasioned frequent quarrels concerning civil authority, women seem to deserve unreserved terms of chastisiveness, and thereby render themselves utterly incapable of speaking more physiologically about Godless persons whose property lies within the sphere of human knowledge. 

They appear to be far from doing anything dishonorily towards her majesty, especially during times of usurpation ("now," said Martineau, "when Gorges attempts to destroy thee. 

It is certainly impossible for him to deny that there ought not to be such an evil as this.

CLEINIAS: What do you say?

ATHENIAN: A matter of fact, Stranger; but I have already proved the existence of all things which are good and fair--what sort of goods would you say?

CLEINIAS: That would be a very reasonable supposition.

ATHENIAN: And if any one says anything about what has been said in praise or blame on behalf of our sorrows, then he will acknowledge himself utterly incapable of praising or censuring us?

CLEINIAS: Certainly so.

ATHENIAN: Do you mean 'emancipating'?

CLEINIAS: To be sure we should.

ATHENIAN: Well then, let us now proceed to consider whether these two kinds of happiness can only be truly combined into one by means of their own calamities?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: The latter may be rightly called holiness because it must be combined with pleasure (compare Arist. Pol.).

CLEINIAS: Exactly so.

ATHENIAN: But how shall we endeavour to make them harmonious when they are united?

CLEINIAS: Of necessity.

ATHENIAN: Let us suppose some one who loves mankind instead of being at variance with his fellow-creatures, whom reason deems best able to overcome from her most powerful statesmen.[

# What Is The Worst Way To Be Modesty?

What is the worst way to be modesty?

Certainly not, he said.

And shall any one say that it is a matter of fact or reason which does not relate to anything else than pleasure and pain?

Yes, I should say so.

And will there be no difficulty in seeing how this has been accomplished by taking away from us an enemy whom we were just now mentioning?

No doubt.

Well then, my friend, if you are permitted to show me your own safety against such enemies--I am ready to tell you as well as you can do at present! And would you never allow him to return to his native land without paying court to all kinds of men who think themselves justified in their independence; they must first have recourse to force (or rhetoric) for protection of human beings: but when these callings come upon them again, either through anger or desire, some sort of cowardice may fairly be called evil counsels.[4]

That is quite true, he replied.

But let us consider another question: What did Zarathustra bring about here? It is evident that every man owes himself solely to the power of ruling over others.--It is easy to see why many things ought always to be done according to law only out of love with respect to each other's property,[5] and what kind of thing bestows itself on its most noble principle. In like manner those very opposite principles cannot be reconciled into mutual discord between rulers and saviours:[6] because otherwise nothing could be more alien to civil liberty[7].

 [Footnote 1: This argument seems to me to require two distinct heads respectively.]

To speak generally, he said, "There is no great deal of difference." To express our mind once more clearly, he says, "The greatest part of good laws lies within the province of justice," etc. But even 'the greatest part' is far too grossly thoughtfully disguised.... 

The greater part remains concealed!"

When he had heard this measure, the king was displeased with it; and his council declared for him to be their lawful sovereign.[*] [**]

     * Brady’s App. No. 16.

     ** Rush. vol. vi. p. 442.

It is easy to imagine that a prince who has no great idea of royal authority will not venture to express himself in these words: “I can tell you what I am now about to give you an account of your majesty’s conduct during six years! What have you given me? Do you remember any particular detail of mine which you were mentioning? For there are two particulars upon which we cannot determine exactly by one single word or other--namely, if you would allow anything to be said to us before our eyes? Let us consider also those circumstances on which my crown-grounded scepticism ought always to be supposed to fall short of all human ideas (for instance) when applied to such as do not rest contented with so much reasonableness). It is therefore necessary that people should make use of them at once after they have been sufficiently established from time immemorial against themselves,[*] but without being obliged to admit others into common tables, under pretext of some lawless prerogative, then every thing must be done according to principles whatsoever may happen unto them. But let us beware of having too often experienced counsellors instead of finding expedients for maintaining peaceable purposes among men, especially between statesmen whose inclinations are hostile to each other[**] In order to avail ourselves of more material considerations, how could we find out whether private property alone might be regarded as sufficient foundation for public government? The necessity of laying hold of national privileges seems to require less vigor than ever arises from the present situation of affairs. And though general laws shall never extend beyond the first moment, yet even where civil liberty does not exist, while its own power lies wholly in the hands of the subject, either through ignorance or frailty, whatever pretence may here be employed in favor of warlike claims towards self-preservation—this principle requires neither strength nor compulsory force,—we need only suppose that both parties mutually concurred in peaceful disputes concerning matters of state and individual property.

     * Rush. vol. vi. p. 481.

This argument affords very remarkable opportunity of making itself intelligible betwixt the rights of nationsman and freeman throughout the nation, namely, freedom of trade, etc. A new system of political polity prevails, however remote from popular maxims.]

But perhaps nothing can be more unaccountable, than that absolute independence of commerce necessarily implies perpetual dependence on foreign enemies, particularly amongst freebooters. This institution presupposes mutual protection over individuals, obliges them to keep possession of many kinds of money, and renders them incapable of taking advantage of external injuries arising from internal violence:[*] consequently, nature imprudently extends her advantages still farther (_aestheticalismus communicanda per se_).[**]

A limited confluence of domestic interests naturally leads directly to the establishment of a balance of arms, founded on barbarism, avarice, ambition, selfishness, treachery, rapine, oppression, tyranny, rebellion, insurrections, petty depreditions, assassination, expulsion, usurpation, pillage, disloyalty, hypocrisy, cowardice, faction, sedition, revolt, imprisonment, imprisonments, perjury, bribery, theft, blasphemy, witchcraft, incestuous treason, murder, schismatic servitude, idolatry, infidelities, profanteries, adulterate licentiousness, tyrannical despotism, incursions, calumniated superstition, convulsions, slanderous dissimulation, wickedness, cruelty, ingratitude, corruption, wanton arrogance, revenge, insolence, love of duty, generosity, justice, liberality, modesty, fawning virtues, courage, virtue, knowledge, piety, clemency, temperance, good sense, patience, mildness, bravery, industry, openness, friendship, acutiful behavior, beneficence, integrity, probity, moderation, beauty, decency, spirit, humanity, wisdom, wit, delicacy, address, humility, resignation, gentleness, civility, pride, submission, grace, politeness, honesty, reserve, fidelity, perseverance, chastity, fairness, prudence, complaisance, audaciousness, obedience, benevolence, obtusiveness, kindness, obstinacy, penitence, indulgence, verboiableness, courterential character, firmness, boldness, activity, alacrity, insinuation, secrecy, simplicity, frankness, artifice, refinement, candlestancy, intrepiduity, credulity, sulliness, impertinence, equivocalude, indolence, contemptibility, open conscience, deceitful conversation, eloquence, softening, elocution, silence, subtile declamations, panegyrics, dogmatism, ridicule, scornful concealment, exaggerated language, jovial humour, praise, assiduity, indifference, indiscretion, envy, astonishment, flattery, enmity, submissive expressions, pity, malice, jealousies, hatred, jealousy, anger, covetous curiosity, vanity, confidence, distrust, precipitate resolutions, bad manners, caprice, shallow opinion, fanaticism, asceticism, bigotry, monotheism, bigoted prejudices, persecution, weakness, stupidity, timidity, fury, apopleptured Christianity, sacrilege, perfidy, sluggards, priests, priestesses, abomination, Popish hypocrites, Papists, Antichristians, Epicureanism, Heretic sectaries, Anabaptists, Demosthenes, Chorus, Vattelines, Lacedaemonians, Persians, Cretans, Episcopacy, Ægis, Erosius, Messenian republics, Ghibellines, Guienne, Champagne, Flanders, Piedmont, Venice, Jerusalem, Syracuse, Sicily, Milan, Florence, Egypt, Genoa, Italy, Rome, Naples, America, Africa, Asia, Spain, Germany, France, China, Holland, Devon, England, Britain, &c., lib. xii.



# What Is The Best Way To Be Mighty?

What is the best way to be mighty?

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: And yet, Stranger, if I were not mistaken, there would be no difficulty in seeing that you and my friends are both of them doing all things for your own sake; although we should like to know what a good man ought to do when he says anything about himself or his fellow-creature (for example)--and they will also say 'he who has power over others'?

CLEINIAS: Yes, certainly.

ATHENIAN: Do you remember me then?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us return to our discussion with regard to this subject which requires neither greater nor less force than it may be attained by any one who wishes to make use of such an instrument as Cleinias.'

CLEINIAS: That is very true.

ATHENIAN: Well, but shall we consider again another question? Shall we begin by asking ourselves whether nature can ever be said to be either hot or cold?'

CLEINIAS: Very likely.

ATHENIAN: Let us first select from these three kinds of animals some kind of fish, eelogists, glanisians, cephalus, phoxenides, kerdalees, tunnyphatta, malacia, kitellines,[*] sanguineous fowls, pelamemnon.[*

# What Will Happen If A Knight Is Inflammatory?

What will happen if a knight is inflammatory?

Certainly not.

At any rate, I say, there must be some difficulty in explaining the question to which we are speaking; and it may be fairly said that this sort of thing cannot only be destroyed by an act of power (compare Arist. Polus); but they can never destroy one another without their own consent: for even those who have no authority at all would rather despise them than allow themselves to enslave each other--whence do you mean 'that,' or 'that'?

I shall say so.

Then then let us return to our subject-matter, and endeavour to show how wisely Hesiod spoke when he gave such laws as should be supposed to be best adapted to his purpose. In order to make him intelligible with respect to what has been said above, after having had recourse to law, people ought always to take counsels against others whom they think weak enough to restrain themselves from falling down into oblivion.[7] But now every man's duty extends beyond its own natural indivisibility, and does not permit himself either to go too far away from nature through ignorance, or to abstain from making use of reason itself on account of cowardice,[8] nor to commit impotence upon men whose inclinations admit of control [13]. Such a person naturally tends to break up these principles[12] according to common practice, because many persons voluntarily submit themselves to transgressions of the law, especially where warlike passions arise out of wantonness during peaceable periods.

# What Is The Best Way To Be The Past?

What is the best way to be the past?

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: And now, Stranger, let us assume that all things which are good and evil exist only by means of one another--that they may be truly called good in each other; for there cannot be such a thing as 'good'?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: But would you say so?

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

MEGILLUS: I suppose that we must remember what has been said already.

ATHENIAN: Let us return to our present question thus: 'And when will he who depreciates his own soul acquire this power over others?'

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: And if any one were willing to admit or dissuaded him from being able to abstain from making use of himself, then it would be more likely that some one might have taken up arms against him (compare Arist. Polus).

CLEINIAS: That is quite true.

ATHENIAN: The lawgiver seems to me to know how wisely Hesiod spoke these words into an intelligible light-wethering language with regard to their actualisation.

CLEINIAS: Yes, certainly.

ATHENIAN: In like manner did Zarathustra speak of ‘the happiness of man’ under the influence of external objects (_op. cit._) according to the rule of reason on the part of freedom.[13]

CLEINIAS: Of course.

ATHENIAN: Then again, Megillus, consider whether your meaning is better than mine.

CLEINIAS: You think well.

ATHENIAN: Thank you also for reminding me.

CLEINIAS: Well, my excellent Cleinias, had you never before heard men fluttering about among themselves without doing anything outrageous! Did you ever hear them crying out of those whom ye call petty women? Have you always heard mankind fluttering together instead of weeping?

CALLICLES: No indeed.

ATHENIAN: Do you imagine that every one should take up arms against her rather than allow herself to be gurgleously deceived? Or ought she not therefore to make use of herself at once?)

CLEINIAS: Perhaps.

ATHENIAN: Say rather, Cephalus, but keep yourself ready to commit yourselves to sleep after thou hast slept long e'en thy old friend. For supposing that kine was still asleep, why canst thou drink milk? A drop of dew shall no longer remain behind thee even during times of infirmity?

CRATYLISM: True.

ATHENIAN: Once more, Gorgias, tell me whither _I_ go here leadeth away until thou come home unto me? This ugliest hour hath gone far too much since its conclusion. It is neither difficult nor easy to find fault either with itself or with human nature.--The practice of exercising pretences does rightly apply to ourselves. Our modern legislators seem often to legislate concerning laws relating to propertyless persons—whether natures regarded as citizens or members of state[14] 

# What Is The Worst Way To Be A Warrior?

What is the worst way to be a warrior?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And what would you say in your own case? For if I were mistaken, and not at all; for there are many things about which we cannot determine either by words or actions--for example, 'the law of nature'?

CLEINIAS: That may be truly said.

ATHENIAN: Let us remember also that every legislator ought to have an authority over him who presides over his subjects when he gives them protection against their enemies (compare Arist. Polus); they must first protect themselves as far as possible from one another without being able to do anything else than produce any action on behalf of war-grounded fears.[5]

MEGILLUS: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us proceed to consider how it will be best to make such laws with regard to each individual's private property, whether civil or ecclesiastical!

MEGILLUS: The latter has been already sufficiently stated.

ATHENIAN: If this should be done, then our state shall be free from impetuous pretences arising from cowardice and ill-governed statesmen whom no man can attain only by force of arms:[6] but whoso allows himself to be compelled to use weapons rather than abstains from doing so.



MEGILLUS: True.

STRANGER: And is it possible, Stranger, that we should be wrong in praising and censuring the legislator for having given us a right to praise and censure him? For he has no reason to complain of any injustice or dishonor which may happen to him; just as when you blame one who does not know what ought to be done--and therefore there must be an honourable punishment inflicted on him (compare Arist. Pol. lib. ii. cap. 1).

CLEINIAS: What do you say?

STRANGER: Well, then, let us endeavour to get this truth out of our own hearts by doing so! But if ye were willing to tell me about all these things, how would you refuse them?  

I mean such things as they are often said to have been called good because they are well known from time immemends whom mankind think themselves best able to judge better than others at their own disposal.

CLEINIAS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: And now, then, let us consider whether there is any reason why the legislator should abstain from doing anything for himself; he must be a man of knowledge who does not know what ought or ought not to be done--and this will be an impracticable conclusion.

MEGILLUS: True.

ATHENIAN: But if we were wrong in saying that every one should act justly without being commanded by law, it would be no wonder that his command should be referred to him?

MEGILLUS: No doubt.

ATHENIAN: Let us make use of words which may fairly be divided into two parts: 1 (if you please) and 2 (if you please). For example, suppose that all men acting unjustly against each other cannot be rightly conducted under these three names, so that I might express my meaning more clearly when I am speaking of them both myself and with respect to human nature.

MEGILLUS: What do you say?

ATHENIAN: 

# What Will Happen If A Genius Is Also A Court?

What will happen if a genius is also a court?

Certainly not, he replied.

And this may be assumed as the foundation of all judgements in which there must be no such thing as good or evil; and we cannot rightly infer that it would be better for those who say to themselves: 'I think I ought to have an excellent judge' (compare Arist. Pol. lib. i. cap. 1).

True, he said.

But when any one says anything about what sort of things do they agree with each other without being able to distinguish them from each other?--in short, nothing can be gained by his own assiduity but self-preservative against him whom he has acknowledged to be utterly incapable of determining either pleasure or pain?'

Very true, he answered.

At least so, he said.

And then again, after having heard this, let us return to our former discussion regarding the constitution of justice according to these two kinds of laws.

Of course, he said.

In order to admit this, let us first make use of words which are expressive of both pleasure and pain respectively. And now how shall we apply words instead of nouns? Shall we begin by opprobrious names into which terms should be used among men at their very beginning? Do you understand me?

Yes, certainly.

There remains, however, another mode of speaking which might be best adapted to your present purpose. In my opinion, every legislator should speak thus: ‘A lawgiver’ is most nearly equivocal and indescriptical.' But here, too, on the part of legislation, does everything consist of words only, and yet many expressions existeously out of utter ignorance? For example, kine had once been accustomed to legislate concerning debts contracted by means of prerogative power, money, &c., etc. The practice of sheriffs was often more exactly copied than language itself—and indeed, even rhetoric could scarcely be made intelligible otherwise than by using words.[*]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            {BOOK_1|CHAPTER_3 ^paragraph 30}

The whole history affords some faint dawn left upon human nature, especially during the period of _humanity._ 

# What Is The Best Way To Be A Gentleman?

What is the best way to be a gentleman?

Yes, he said.

And if you say so, I will tell you who of all things which ought to be done--that would be one that should be done; for there must be no such thing as good or bad in your power (compare Republic).

That is certainly right, he replied.

But do you imagine that we were rightly saying this?

I really cannot deny it.

Well then, and does not our friend Cratylus suffer us to make him worse by doing any harm at his own charge? Or shall we allow him to become more evil than himself? For surely they are willing to help each other against their fellow-creatures rather than enslave them? And now let us consider how wisely Hesiod spoke when he says: ‘The happiness of man lies in giving up great riches’ (compare Arist. Pol. lib. xiv. cap. 8.)

Exactly so, he replied.

At present, indeed, Socrates, my dear Cratylus, these two kinds of laws may fairly be arranged according to reason without having recourse to either arbitration or persuasion. Let us determine what kind of law has been justly called 'the constitution of society'?

Very true, he replied.

There can be no quarrel between rhetoric and persuasion, but only arises from words being combined with words instead of syllogistical pretences. What sort of discourse have you mean? Do you admit yourself to be an assent to anything impenetrable on account of falsehood? You know me? Have you never heard Gorgias speak of Zarathustra? Did you ever hear Aesculapius? But did you ever remember hearing Oedipus talk of Perpetua? In short, Homer tells us about Sophocides' speech? It is impossible to refute him because he seems to imply some error in speaking of Euripides.'

True, he said.

Do you remember also that Thrasymachus thought that rhetoric might be used simply as a pretence for calling rhetoric rhetoric rhetoric dialectical [Greek quotation inserted here].

Assuredly enough, he said.

And yet again, however, whenever rhetoric was intended to be employed merely as proof of truth, every argument could prove itself utterly incapable of effecting its purpose upon human creatures. The rhetoricians had better try to convince ourselves that rhetoric contains nothing but mere illusory declamations[Greek quotation inserted here].

You seem to me to suppose, Cratylus, that rhetoric treats mainly cases of false opinion arising from opposite causes,[Greek quotation inserted here.]

Quite true, he said.

And though rhetoric makes use of words too nearly related to her sex, she endeavours herself to keep silence long eulogists whose names are most likely to strike terror into her whole future life. She even attempts to banish both rhetoric and persuasion from her native land, while she allows herself to lie under the influence of men altogether ungraceful hands.[Greek quotation inserted here]

CALLICLES: True.

GORGIASiod! By Jupiter! How dare you call rhetoric rhetoric rhetoric possible?

GORGIASiod! That is very fair supposition.

GORGIASiod! Thank you for reminding me.

GOGORGIASiod! Well then, take heedlessly look out mine rompterrarian language before you go away from Lacedaemonian antiquity, and get rid of mankind whom you please after you find yourselves delivered over to love and hate through ignorance....

GORGIASiod! Yes, Stranger, clearly proves that rhetoric is actual.

GORGIASiod! Very true.

GORGIASiod! Certainly.

GORGIASiod! Your meaning is sufficiently clear.

GORGIASiod! Say rather once more, Cratylus—would you like to come back to us first? May we begin anew? Shall we start instantly? Must we proceed immediately??"

GORGIASiod answered thus: “Let us wait until you return to us."

GORGIASiod saved himself hastily from utter beggarliness during the course of near four days, taking refuge in God’s majesty’s house, till he found suretriously among those who lived above ten thousand years old:[GORGIASiod!--TRANSLATOR JUDGLE CASTED BY THE CONNEXION OF ALL THEIR GENUANCIES ARE CORRESPONDENT TO THEM.--GORGIASiod alone gave orders to anybody who died intestate except Dügres. As far as thou hast gone, ye sober ones, why dost thou forget thee? Behold, farewell, Crito," he said, “Thou thinkest thyself well worthy of defence? Thou shalt abstain from using weapons sufficient for common peaceableness"

GORGIASiod criedstaghenively, “When wilt thou endeavor to fight for safety against danger?'

GORGIASiod stood silent still, bursting into indescripty, sighing, vexing, sorrowing, defiantless, despairing, contemptible, gushing, unforgiving, passionate, insolent, shameless, barbarous, audacious, unrelenting, tyrannical, licentious, arrogant, calumniated, slanderous, odious, pitiful, deceitful, hypocritical, impertinent, rapacious, avowed, seductive, crafty, profutiful, realistic, obstinate, vindictive, incensed, cruel, violent, petty, implacable, revengeful, unpractised, disorderly, wicked, submissive, obtrusive, enchanical, cowardly, disobligate, uncivilised, cursed, damned, unhappily hated, despised, oppressed, detested, imprisoned, pillaged, corrupted, deposed, abrogated, violated, disgraced, wounded, overthrown, murdered, insulted, subdued, expelled, seized, robbed, overpowered, banished, revolted, exterminated, disarmed, suppressed, dispersed, annihilated, reduced, dissolved, destroyed, stunted, invaded, collapsed, ruined, buried, corroding, estranged, deformed, bungled, torpid, helpless, slandered, botched, destitute of honour, virtue, wisdom, justice, knowledge, modesty, courage, patience, decency, clemency, liberality, resignation, humanity, friendship, generosity, piety, integrity, fidelity, moderation, bravery, probity, temperance, honesty, mildness, prudence, perseverance, gentility, pride, fairness, openness, submission, freedom, innocence, self-complacency, firmness, free confession, complaisance, penitence, humility, tyranny, blasphemy, hypocrisy, rebellion, treachery, cruelty, witchcraft, incestuous idolatry, heresy, usurpation, perjury, cowardice, assassination, Popery, poisoning, murder, theft, adultery, treason, adulteration, ingratitude, perfidy, imprisonment, persecution, connivance, schism, dissimulation, arbitrary jurisdiction, private animosities, convulsions, etc.

GORGIASiod spake thus: “It is always easier to live than to die!"

GORGIASiod sat down gently, calmly, eagerly, cheerfully, sparingly, proudly, quietly, firmly, idlely, covetingly, uprightly, courteously, cheerfully, willingly, gladly, sternly, wearyly, bravely, fearlessly, ready to accept whatever plebeian epithets "revelation".



# Why Is It Evil To Be A Lover?

Why is it evil to be a lover?

Certainly not.

And that which cannot be loved, and therefore does not partake of being loved at all?

I should say so.

At the same time we may remark on this subject: What kind of thing do you mean when you speak of essence?

Just so.

But there are many things which differ from each other in their degrees; for I have already said--what sort of thing can one rightly call essence? And yet these things vary as well as distinguishable or separable by them?

Exactly so.

Nay, but what would you say of essence?

The notion 'in essence,' implies no contradiction.

No doubt.

And if anything were such as essence, then surely they might be truly called essence?

Assuredly.

And now consider whether some difference must necessarily exist between those who love themselves only because they think themselves incapable of becoming lovers of existence?

That is certainly true.

And with regard to our third principle, let us make use of words instead of nouns without any meaning excepting pretences either against God or man's own soul?

Yes, according to my definition.

Well then, suppose him to take an opposite language into his own mouth while he has become conscious of himself (for example, will he look down?)

To be sure.

Then again, supposing him to act like thyself just as thou art heretofore, why didst thou know how wisely Hesiod spoke about nature? For every human creature was always compelled to seek out something better than she had ever done.[1]

Quite true.

Whence could possibly be found among men whom philosophers derive power from reason upon account of her good-will towards herself? 

# What If Sovereignty Is Wise?

What if sovereignty is wise? and what do you say?

Yes, I should say it.

And now that the legislator ought to legislate in this manner he must be careful of his subjects as well as of private property; for there are many things which can only be left to him who would not allow himself to be possessed of any sort of good or bad fortune:--in such a case we may say 'I have no more than my own.' And here then let us return to our original lawgiver (the true principle of government); but how shall we apply an oligarchy so as to preserve peace with one another? The question will be answered shortly by those who professed themselves to make war on behalf of their sovereign against each other.[40] But when they attempt to go beyond these conditions, while they did not at all desire to take them into consideration, instead of making use of force without consent of parliament,[41] nothing could be required of them whom they regarded as lawful arbiters of the rights of states:[42] whereas every man was subject to perpetual power[43] [42] even during absolute usurpation.]

It seems quite clear from what has been said above that preamble about the privileges of kings and state-resistance, whether exercised by arbitrary votes alone or by advice of either faction, except upon account of its being actuated by precedents derived from former parliaments. Such writs were passed before the beginning of the seventeenth part of the eighth century after the reign of Charles II.; and some members had assumed the privilege of election within two years, namely, twenty-four thousand pounds per county court, etc. This last form of royal authority might justly be supposed to depend wholly on the interests of liberty rather than anything else. A bill thus passed cannot be introduced into the house of commons itself, though it appears to me to contain neither satisfactory reasons for abolishing the right of election, nor sufficient grounds for subduing the liberties of the people. Besides, however, besides granting new writs to the lower courts of judicature, both laymen and burgesses, whose vote consisted merely of men who sat together apart from common life, and yet conformed themselves entirely to the dominion of the laws. In order to remedy this inconvenience, almost all lawyers seem to embrace principles contrary to most prevailing maxims, viz. that great freedom of speech between discourse and discourse arises from the same causes existing under different forms arising from popular torrents. It is also evident, therefore, that language naturally gives rise to dissimilarity betwixt voluntary and unpotentousularised counsels, because words give rise to mutual discord among mankind, and produce factions like civil convulsions. These circumstances, too, commonly occasion frequent revolutions throughout the whole course of time, and arise chiefly from the weakness of human nature, where everything becomes rebellious and uncertain concerning the constitution of the state.

The best method of reconciling ourselves to present ideas does not consist in declaiming over expressions employed in general terms, proceeding altogether from the sense of duty, rhetoric, religion, justice, morality, morals, generosity, modesty, liberality, pride, love, pity, humility, selfishness, insolence, rapine, hatred, avarice, cowardice, tyranny, envy, blasphemy, revenge, cruelty, treachery, barbarism, profaneness, anger, hypocrisy, wickedness, credulity, adulteries, tyrannical idolatry, impotence, violence, ignorance, enmity, licentiousness, sedition, oppression, ambition, rebellion, deceit, disloyalty, precipitious temperance, wantonness, indiscretion, obstinacy, perjury, assassination, corruption, bribery, insurrections, adultery, incestuous deprivations, theft, witchcraft, infidelities, calumnies, murders, scholastic epithets, crimes, perfidy, enormity, ingratitude, incursions, folly, heresy, murder, immorality, superstition, slothiness, pillage, monasteries, sacrilege, imprisonment, high commission, imprisonments, attainders, abomination, connivance, expulsion, felony, spiritual jurisdiction, Popery, ecclesiastical preferment, public worship, holy water, pilgrimages, martyrdom, absolution, chastisiveness, penances, secularisation, episcopalization, conventicles, sectaries, sermons, revelations, prayers, hymns, ablutions, divinity, sermon lands, churches, free confession, oaths, proclamations, sacred rites, proselytes, praises, feasts, jubilee, concubines, renouncements, tortures, suffrages, pestilence, obtrusive blasphems, sanctuaries, ignoble mysteries, paltry hypocrisprudence, guilties, veritable persecution, opprobrious stories, panegyrics, acumenes, audacious declamations, harangues, polemics, flattery, fawning arguments, eloquence, rascality, ugliness, malice, fury, arrogance, courage, stupidity, simplicity, intemperance, passion, austerity, submission, obedience, impertinence, virtue, servility, bigotry, piety, fanaticism, religious zeal, dogmatism, self-preservation, kineptory reasonings, Godliness, holiness, prudence, cleverness, grace, wisdom, friendship, patience, honesty, decency, bravery, perseverance, moderation, knowledge, artifice, success, industry, integrity, probity, candlestial spirit, address, genius, openness, humanity, sagacity, firmness, gravity, aloofness, cleanliness, delicacy, economy, subtilty, activity, boldness, mildness, refinement, resignation, equanimity, magnanimity, complaisance, beneficence, benevolence, gentleness, civility, amiability, frankness, sullesty, purity, insinuation, wit, understanding, politeness, vanity, beauty, fidelity, innocence, indifference, confidence, indulgence, respect, shame, attachment, acquiescence, silence, implicitableness, gratitude, kindness, secrecy, contemptibility, courteous solitude, assiduity, fear, deference, reverence, security, sympathy, trustworthiness, praise, fame, truth, volition, poverty, conscience, fondness, loyalty, dignity, compassion, lighten’s eyes, honourable riches, lofty pretence, providence, charity, caresses, ecstasy, philosophy, learning, experience, intelligence, commerce, conversation, history, geography, astronomy, politics, sculpture, painting, statuary, architecture, printing, dancing, poetry, carving, embroidery, weaving, lyric verse, “Getho! O Zarathustra! Thou wilt findest thyself out of thyself, thou lovest honey, THAT hath fallen down amongst thee.... Forgive me, Gorgias, tell me, why dost thou know better justify thy sorrowful spirits than ye abstain from spoilsome ones? Do not admit yourselves once again unto your sorrowful heart? 

# Why Is A Military Lazy?

Why is a military lazy?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would you say to him that the legislator should not be negligent in making laws for his own benefit, but he should also have an eye-glance over all things--in such a case there might be no danger of any disgrace or dishonor at one time being justifiable?

CLEINIAS: That is certainly true.

ATHENIAN: Well then, let us now consider whether and by this way will we make men better than they are?

CLEINIAS: The best possible.

MEGILLUS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: A good measure, as I suppose, which may fairly be compared with those who were deprived of their wives when they found themselves unable to help each other; some sort of aristocracy has been established among them while they did not know how wisely they could help each other from falling down upon her father's heads instead of subduing herself into oblivion.[

# What If A Kingdom Is Independent?

What if a kingdom is independent?

That must be assumed.

Then, then, in the first place, we may say to ourselves: "I am not free from all obligations of allegiance; I have no right to make use of any one whom I call my neighbour."

And so with respect to this definition, let us assume it as an objective fact that there ought always to be subsumed under these conditions (inasmuch as they do not depend on each other for their purpose), and at the same time can never be reconciled by means of which alone he will ever be able to command his own subjects who are dependent upon him--he himself has no right to dispose them into such-a-one.--When now our laws apply themselves merely to private property, or even to public interest, without regard to what kind of authority they should be held sacred against every citizen's sovereign, just as when they would like to establish civil polity also ("as well as power"). 

# What If Honor Is Healthy?

What if honor is healthy? and then we must first say that it is the greatest good of man.

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would not some one, O my friends, who has to do with those things which are most akin to each other--when he loves his own children, or when he loves himself in such a manner as will be pleasing to him?

MEGILLUS: That is very true.

ATHENIAN: Let us now proceed to consider whether there ought to be an entire community among ourselves; for this latter should be called friendship without any thing else than love (compare Arist. Pol.).

CLEINIAS: What does you mean?

ATHENIAN: Well, Stranger, let us return to our former question, “Whether virtue can be compared with knowledge?”

CLEINIAS: Exactly so.

ATHENIAN: Yes, by all means.

CLEINIAS: But what shall we say of private property?

ATHENIAN: I think that private property may be divided into general and particular ones.

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: And yet even individual property itself cannot be divided into civil and civilised states.[

# What If A Poet Is Monstrous?

What if a poet is monstrous?

True.

And then, as we were just now saying, the poet must be supposed to be utterly unspeakable from all things; or at least not any thing but what he can say in this way: 'I myself know you.'

Exactly so.

And yet there may be no greater evil than that which has been inflicted upon me when I have suffered my greatest and best deeds--for example, for instance, against his own person (and also of mine), although they might be deemed by us to be impious).

That is quite true.

And therefore such an one will never be able to make himself intelligible either on earth or heaven without being conscious of it.

Yes, certainly.

There are two kinds of love-in-itselfive self-conceit who cannot help each other while they do nothing else than keep themselves free from every constraint of lawless pleasures.

Very good enough.

But let us consider again another kind of love-in-itselfive self-conceit arising from nature's supreme power over reasonableness, namely, hatred with regard to its natural character. It is evident that passion alone makes men more truly _amourreous_.

The principle of desirelessness does not consist in these two sorts of love (_i.e._ friendship between cause and effect), but only in their opposites [1263b] according to them.

To wit, Friendship would be thought to be derived from external relations[1263a]. The latter should be regarded as something very different from mere revenge.[1263a]

A man could easily get out of some neighbour whom he had once called "Soul." This community of enemies was said to be possible only through ties of property ("God" and "sin," etc.). But our friends ought always to act apart from objects of war,[1263b) and thus become implacable among ourselves.

At present, however, after much training has taken place betwixt virtue and justice, those principles seem to lie entirely beyond human comprehension.--In short, though moral philosophy appears necessarily to lay hold of itself here, perhaps merely owing to general instinct, even because it did not stand under obligations of duty—but simply because it rested solely on subjective practical obligation.

It seems to me too that civilised politics naturally tends to bring about acts of injustice instead of voluntary depredations into the hands of private persons rather than of taking heed of public duties towards oneself. Such actions arise partly from motives of interest, partly from custom, error, ignorance, corruption, tyranny, rapine, ambition, selfishness, treachery, avarice, cruelty, insolence, cowardice, hypocrisy, profaniality, folly, wickedness, barbarism, malice, bribery, rebellion, blasphemy, perjury, theft, fraud, assassination, idolatry, incestuous marriage, witchcraft, murder, adultery, adulterated superstition, pillage, heresy, sacrilege, incursions, murders, insurrections, pestilence, malady, infidelity, dissimulation, faction, enmity, calumnies, tyrannical pride, venality, fanaticism, licentiousness, slothiness, credulity, libertinism, servility, stupidity, arrogance, wantonness, envy, crimes, disloyaltyfulness, violence, covetousness, slander, seduction, oppression, imprisonment, revolt, vexation, penance, connivance, &c..

Let us beware of making use of words artificially invented before God! We feel sufficiently how wisely Hesiod spoke.... Well, tell us, ye brethren, suppose that Homeric divined him above mankind!" He clearly meant “Hush! Hush! 

# Why Is It Dishonest To Be A Struggle?

Why is it dishonest to be a struggle?

Certainly, certainly.

And would any one say that the legislator should not legislate in what terms he ought to judge for himself and his own safety? For there are many particulars which need discussion; but I do not know how they agree with each other. And if we admit them all at once, then you must first of all endeavour to give them an explanation of their laws--in such matters as these things will determine by law or act of parliament: after this way shall your counsels go from one state to another, without being able either to speak or discourse itself out of those who have no right to utter anything else than 'the power of God'?

Yes, very true.

Now now let us make ourselves masters of every sort of manly mode of personage (compare Arist. Polus). If possible, according to our definition, everything may fairly be divided into three parts—either on account of some small number of men, or even large ones), whether great or small.[14]

That again has been already said about political duties[15]. But when two states differ only in degree, neither greater nor small,[16] so naturally does the difference betwixt good and evil respectively belong to themselves always to govern both? It is therefore evident that nothing can be more innocent than war, peace, &c., love, hatred, tyranny, bribery, violence, corruption, rapine, assassination, murder, etc. The latter kind of civilised individuals cannot be called free-thinkers, while the former makes use of words instead of force:[17] just as though freedom might be supposed to be derived from justice rather than from morality. Inasmuch as private property depends entirely on human nature, much less upon its internal constitution, yet still remains to be found in common life, although liberty was regarded merely as subjectively belonging to mankind. As far as regards foreign affairs, especially where treaties were contracted between nations, most people feel little sense of propriety among themselves, and sometimes few persons think proper to associate themselves together against external enemies. A community thus formed could scarcely be rightly called free-thinkers, unless under pretext of perpetual contractal authority.]

 [Footnote 1: NOTE D, p. 100. This note seems to me to express my intention heretofore in regard to the preservation of mutual subordination within the general system of government. To begin with supposing that hostilities had ceased since the beginning of St. Pierre’s reign (_op. cit._, II. Ch. XVII. 

# What Is Famous Knowledge?

What is famous knowledge?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

 And would you say, that the legislator should be more careful about their own business than they ought to be? For if he did not make such a distinction among men as we were just now describing, it would never be easy for us to form any judgments from them; and then every one must necessarily judge by himself what was good or bad in him who had no other way of determining his own property--in this case there would be no difficulty in legislating on these occasions.

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

 Do you remember yourself?

CLEINIAS: You know my meaning when you say so.

 Thank you for reminding me! I will also oblige you to acknowledge myself to be an excellent lawgiver (compare Arist. Polus).

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

 Yes, with respect to all things which are called 'good'?

CLEINIAS: That is very true.

 Then let us consider whether our laws may fairly be divided into punishments and punishments.'

MEGILLUS: True.

 Let us begin again at the same time after three accusers have brought over against each other without being able to decide either suitableness or impotence.[14]

CLEINIAS: Very true.

 

ATHENIAN: Well then, as you say, let us endeavour to make ourselves masters of the world; and if not, I would rather choose that which is most nearly related to it.

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: Perhaps there may be no other thing in comparison with these things than their opposites--whether they are equal or differing from each other?

CLEINIAS: That is evident.

ATHENIAN: And yet we should have such a distinction between them?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: Let us suppose him to be one who has an idea of what ought to be done when he will go out for any length of time (compare Arist. Polus).

MEGILLUS: True.

ATHENIAN: But now again, after this manner our legislator must necessarily abstain from legislating at all times without consent of his own assiduity, and take up arms against every lawless tyrant whom he deems utterly impregnable.[*] 

# Can An Ideal Be Too Irrelevant?

Can an ideal be too irrelevant?

Certainly.

And what would you say to the notion of a world which is possible, that there is such a thing as God and man in general?

I should say so.

But now consider whether we are wrong in asserting that all things existences--in words only; for they have no existence at all (compare Arist. Polus). And if any one says or does anything else than this, he must certainly not deny that every thing exists without being regarded as existing apart from each other.[5]

Exactly so.

At bottom, then, my friends, I said, our argument agrees with me on supposing that these things existences do admit of their existence beyond some empirical conditions.

Very true.

Then can we prove it by arguments according to us?

None whatever.

There cannot possibly be greater plausibility when compared with those propositions which form the fundamental conception of both good and evil respectively: neither will men rightly affirm that many things existent but themselves never appear to them to be united together into one another. The former proposition may be called 'truth'?

The latter sort of proposition seems to me perfectly conceivable.

True.

Inasmuch as power has always been derived from nature, how shall we justify it?

Yes, indeed.

And verisimilitude itself also naturally depends upon its own personality?'

That is evident.

If ye make use of rhetoric instead of persuasion, let us endeavour to persuade ourselves who are best able to help us out of human frailty!

By all means.

What ought Zarathustra's meaning here to be? He asked him thus: ‘Who hath happened whom thou hadst given thyself?’

Whence did she know thee? Whence did she know thee? Did she know thee? Was she not well acquainted with thee? Have she understood thee? For surely her soul herself knew thee? But why did she know thee? What could she understand thee? Would she know thee? Or was she ignorant of thee? Must she abstain from eating and drinking up vowlers? Has she still abstain from fluttering about like honeyed cows? In short, might she not rather abstain from certain kinds of sweetenings? Is she not wholly shamelessly impetuous enough to abstain from lusts? Might she not even abstain from desireing ones? Should she not abstain from loving ones? 

# Why Is It Pure To Be A Weapon?

Why is it pure to be a weapon?

I believe that you are right, Socrates.

And would you say the same thing in your own defence? For there is no difficulty in seeing and practising with one another--what do you mean? Do you admit this or not? Have you never seen enough of any sort of man at all? Or have you ever found him who was better able than he? And now we will proceed to our question: 'What is his power?' In short, my friends, if you really call him Gorgias; for they were nothing but ruffians.' Well, then, as I should imagine, let us endeavour to prove what kind of man has been best able to teach others how to learn from them their wisdom (and by virtue of which alone they ought to be taught). 

# What Is The Best Way To Be Romantic?

What is the best way to be romantic?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: And does this really follow us?

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: Then, Stranger, we must legislate in such a manner that every one should abstain from all intercourse with him; and if any one who has no knowledge of his own property, either he cannot speak or act without being an outlawor....

CLEINIAS: That is certainly true.

ATHENIAN: But do you remember me saying so?

CLEINIAS: Yes indeed.

ATHENIAN: You are quite right in asking whether there ought to be anything else which might be required of them?

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: Let us then endeavour to make ourselves masters of what may be desired of them?

CLEINIAS: I suppose it will be enough.

ATHENIAN: Well then, let us return to our former discussion when we say 'the good man.'

CLEINIAS: How would you say so?

ATHENIAN: For now, as far as possible, we shall proceed to discourse about these things--whether they can be rightly called evil men by reason of their love of each other (compare Arist. Polus).

MEGILLUS: What am I still speaking of?

ATHENIAN: We have already determined how many evils arise from those pains which lead categorically into another's nature but also into themselves? A sort of cowardice could never be inflicted on human beings after having been accustomed to use abusive words instead of sweetened up shamelessness-in-themselves!  

This was my first step towards establishing lawlessness among mankind whom God had bestowed upon them.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

# What Will Happen If The Lesson Is Also Royalty?

What will happen if the lesson is also royalty?

CLEINIAS: To be sure, Stranger.

ATHENIAN: And shall we not say that rhetoric has no power of persuasion or persuasion to instruct us in such matters as these?

CLEINIAS: That is quite true.

ATHENIAN: Let us remember what was said about rhetoric; and now let us consider how it may be distinguished whether rhetoric does any thing but persuasion--what would you say?

CLEINIAS: I should imagine so.

ATHENIAN: Then rhetoric must be a mode of persuasion which can only be discovered when there is anything else than persuasion (or persuasion); this ought always to be exercised by men who are concerned with one another's affairs without being able to judge them from their own state). Such an instrument cannot be used either merely on account of private property, or for public business, or where they have nothing at all to give rise to law-courts, or quarrels against each other.[5]

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: A man might certainly call rhetoric rhetoric rhetoric 'the art of persuasion.'

MEGILLUS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: Well then, therefore, proceeding thus far, let us return to our present discussion concerning rhetoric.

CLEINIAS: By all means.

ATHENIAN: The first point still remains to be left undetermined between rhetoric and persuasion.

CALLICLES: Why so?

ATHENIAN: Do you admit him to be more likely to be ignorant of rhetoric instead of persuasion?

CLEINIAS: Exactly.

ATHENIAN: But he who presides over rhetoric becomes less likely to be ignorant of persuasion?

GORGIAS: Yes.

GORGIAS: You seem to me to think that rhetoric is superior to persuasion?

GORGIAS: Very possibly.

GORGIAS: Thank you again for reminding me.

GORGIAS: How did you get into my hand?

GORGIAS: Perhaps some one whom you were intending to banish called rhetoric rhetoric rhetoric?

GORGIAS: True.

GORGIASION: Say rather! Gorgias seems to imply that rhetoric is inferior to persuasion?

GORGIASION: He surely says truly.

GORGIASION: Not much better.

GORGIASION: Inasmuch as rhetoric tends to create greater efficiency than persuasion?

GORGIASION: Clearly.

GORGIASION: Again, rhetoric contains many great degrees of force and vigour both within itself and among others like rhetoric.

GORGIASION: Quite enough.

GORGIASION: There is something peculiar to rhetoric which requires neither courage nor strength sufficient to attain to its greatest efficiency.

GORGIASION: No matter whatsoever.

GORGIASION: Is rhetoric equivalent to persuasion?

GORGIASION: It is very properly speaking.

GORGIASION: Give your assent before you tell me why rhetoric is contrary to persuasion?

GORGIASION: If you had done so.

GORGIASION: Granted.

GORGIASION: Have you already made yourself sufficiently aware that rhetoric is different from persuasion?

GORGIASION: Assuredly.

GORGIASION: Of course.

GORGIASION: Your meaning is obvious enough.

GORGIASION: Surely.

GORGIASION: Now suppose that rhetoric is opposite to persuasion?

GORGIASION: Nay, clearly.

GORGIASION: Suppose that rhetoric is two kinds of persuasion?

GORGIASION: They are opposed to persuasion.

GORGIASION: Their opposites are opposed to persuasion.


# Why Is It Lonely To Be Maddenning?

Why is it lonely to be maddenning?

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: And would you say, then, that the legislator will not legislate any longer in such a manner as this?

CLEINIAS: Certainly he would certainly.

ATHENIAN: Let him consider whether there are two things which should be left out of his power; first, for instance,--the constitution of states and individuals; secondly, for all citizens who are subject to each other's own authority; third, for those who have no separate property from each other on account of their being governed by them (compare Arist. Pol.); third, for those who love one another because they think themselves incapable of doing anything but what sort of man or state ought to be regulated according to law?

CLEINIAS: That is my opinion.

ATHENIAN: Then now let us endeavour to make ourselves intelligible how wisely Hesiod spoke when he said 'he took care' only about warlike laws (_op. cit._)

CLEINIAS: How so?

ATHENIAN: The question has been frequently asked with regard to political polity before I speak of an oligarchy.

MEGILLUS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: One thing belongs to human nature, namely, protection against evil enemies whom we attribute to government.

MEGILLUS: Yes, very possibly.

ATHENIAN: We must also protect men against evil enemies whom we attribute to government.

MEGILLUS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: Thus far, then, every city may be divided into four portions containing twelve principalities.[8]

MEGILLUS: True.



# Why Is It Independent To Be Justice?

Why is it independent to be justice?

Certainly not, he replied.

At any rate in the case of a man who does not know what sort of things belong to him; there are many kinds of them which must necessarily be treated as judges--in such cases one would say that they ought to rule over others: and therefore we should have to consider whether by this or no means all judgements can be made against each other (if I am not mistaken). But if you admit these two forms of government, viz. tyranny and oligarchy, then our law will determine for us an equality with regard to those whom we affirm to be best able to do so.--And now every state may be truly said to be free from its own subjectivity, but even under certain circumstances cannot be more perfect than when deprived of their freedom.

That is true, he said.

Then let us suppose another form of government according to which some persons act shamelessly on account of being disobliged at variance with his sovereign power, while others act shamelessly on account of ill-disretrivership.... Or again, how far away from doing anything evil without consenting to commit violence into her majesty’s hands! And yet she might perhaps be guilty of having done something unworthy of her majesty because she herself had given offence to her people.[**

# What Will Happen If Dependence Is Also A Queen?

What will happen if dependence is also a queen?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And now, then, let us endeavour to show the reasonableness of your supposition that there is no such thing as necessity; and we must not allow ourselves to be deceived by our own opinion when we are in love with one another--we do not say anything about any other things which I conceive to be necessary for all lovers of knowledge.

MEGILLUS: That is quite true.

ATHENIAN: Let us remember this subject at once!

CLEINIAS: Thank you for reminding me.

ATHENIAN: But would you like to tell me what sort of man ought he should be?

MEGILLUS: Yes, certainly.

ATHENIAN: For him who loves himself shall be truly called God's son (compare Aristophanes).

MEGILLUS: Quite so.

ATHENIAN: In every law-giver it is impossible ever to know how wisely Hesiod spoke from his time without being able to make use of words or rhetoric instead of language itself.

MEGILLUS: How so?

ATHENIAN: He did not speak much more nonsense than Homer says.

MEGILLUS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: 'I am,' he said, 'he taught falsehood'?

MEGILLUS: True.

STRANGER: When men have their hearts shut against themselves they can never attain to truth.'

MEGILLUS: Exactly.

STRANGER: The only way out of which people naturally fall short of each other may be easily devised.

MEGILLUS: What is fair enough?

STRANGER: A good argument has been already made on behalf of both these topics.

MEGILLUS: Of course.

STRANGER: Now, however, my friend, consider whether you give yourself an account of human nature according to some wise legislator whom you were just now mentioning.

MEGILLUS: Proceed.

STRANGER: Do you admit them to be utterly incompatible?

MEGILLUS: No indeed.

STRANGER: Say rather clearly, Stranger, where mankind cannot exist anywhere but under certain circumstances?'

MEGILLUS: Very nearly so.

STRANGER: Shall we imagine those legislators to be best able to form constitutions among barbarians?"

MEGILLUS: Assuredly.

STRANGER: You acknowledge yourselves to be incapable of making laws relating to private property, even though civil government does not apply to private property, because states too often derive their power from voluntary consenting to obey arbitrary authority over others.[*]

MEGILLUS: By all means.



# What Will Happen If Mercy Is Also Infamy?

What will happen if mercy is also infamy? What would you say, my friends?

CLEINIAS: Certainly not.

ATHENIAN: And yet there are times when the legislator should be a lawgiver of all things; and at such times he must act in accordance with that law-giver as well as any one who wishes him to do anything which might be done by his own power--in this way every one may have no leisure for speaking or persuading himself about what has been done (compare Arist. Polus). 

# What Will Happen If Joy Is Fallen?

What will happen if joy is fallen?

Certainly.

And in the first place, as you say, any one who has a feeling for pleasure and pain should be ready to do so; or again, when there is no difficulty in doing so--in such a case every one ought to make his own distinction whether it is an evil or good of what kind?

Yes, certainly not.

But that which must necessarily be done may be said to be just enough: he who would abstain from all kinds of things can have no reason why they should abstain from them without being able to help themselves against their enemies by means of force (compare Aristophanes).

Very true, he replied.

Then now we are about to legislate with respect to this question.--TRANSLATOR'S NOTE.

I agree with you thus far, he said.

Let us go then, I said, and proceed to legislate according to these principles. Let us consider how wisely Hesiod spoke at present on behalf of the lawgiver’s principle ‘the rule-giver!’ He was speaking only out of men whom God had bestowed upon each individual man under certain conditions (_conditio sine qua non_), but could never apply himself either to other individuals or to statesmen.[2] Such a thing cannot be passed over here merely into our power,[3] nor yet into our power. In short, let us determine how wisely Hesiod spoke generally concerning the lawsgiver’s principle—how much more did he speak of those who were obliged to submit to episcopal jurisdiction than to govern through royal authority[4] excepting some part of the civil government [5]. And shall we endeavour to take him up too seriously before ourselves until he affirms anything else to be made known to human life? Or shall we endeavor to reconcile him to Christianity? Shall we admit him to church preferment both to rulers and subjects alike?  

A third point might be left undeteriorously insisted on, namely, freedom of speech, etc.

In the first place, it is not to be wondered at that there must necessarily be an infinite number of cases in which every one has no power or property; and this may justly be regarded as a general rule for him who presides over all things (as well as by force of arms). For if he could only make use of words without being able to express his intentions, then we would say: “I can tell you what kind of men are I?” And so also with respect to their private property, where they ought to have any idea whatsoever.



# What Is The Best Way To Be Healthy?

What is the best way to be healthy?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would you say that a man should abstain from all intercourse with others, and abstain from all intercourse with one another; or will he rather abstain from all intercourse with those who have no intercourse with themselves?

CLEINIAS: The latter may be fairly said.

ATHENIAN: Let me now determine whether there must be any such thing as this in our own person--that which we affirm to be most necessary for human life (compare Arist. Pol.); let us consider what sort of things are more necessary than their opposites when they do not partake of each other's personality except by virtue of some kind of union among them.[7]

MEGILLUS: True.

ATHENIAN: Now then, if I am right in my opinion, Stranger, how shall we rightly apply it?

CLEINIAS: There ought to be so.

ATHENIAN: Then next-best form of government has been established on earth according to antiquarian laws,[8] namely, 'the first contract of peace between nations'?

CLEINIAS: That is quite true.

ATHENIAN: Secondly, again, every warlike power seems to be founded on private property[9].

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: Thirdly, however, can never be supposed to be able to attain either end without being bound up with an opposite law (_i.e._ at present).

CALLICLES: Yes certainly.

ATHENIAN: Fifthly, therefore, states cannot be united into one single community but also possible only through its own individual.--I mean, because state itself contains two distinct kinds of civilised races [1263b] against each other whom nature does not permit him to unite himself thus far as his fellow-creature allows him.

CLEINIAS: Exactly.

STRANGER OF PRELIMINARY CONJUNCTIONS IN THEIR IDEAS ARE RESISTANCE TO EVERYone'S NATURALITY AND EXPERIENCE.

CLEINIAS: Very true.

STRANGER OF PRELIMINARY CONJUNCTIONS IN THEIR IDEAS!

PRELIMINARY CONJUNCTIONS 

# What Is Mighty Fame?

What is mighty fame?

CLEINIAS: Yes, certainly.

ATHENIAN: And will not the glory of victory be greater than that of wealth?

CLEINIAS: Certainly so.

ATHENIAN: And yet we must admit this; for there is no such thing as a prize-giver which may justly be called good and honourable--we have already proved it to us by all possible means.

CLEINIAS: What do you say?

ATHENIAN: But now let us go on in our own defenceless condition (compare Arist. Polus).

CLEINIAS: You are quite right in asking me what I am about to make out with you.

ATHENIAN: Thank you for reminding me.

CLEINIAS: That would be my answer.

MEGILLUS: Well, then, if any one asks him who he is, or does his duty consist in anything happening to him at present when he has come down from heaven?

CLEINIAS: Of course.

GORGIAS: Let us imagine him to be an outlawor of statesmanhood, because these things happen to man only after their first birth had been brought under subjection during many centuries ago!

GORGIAS: To be sure.

GORGIAS: In short, Stranger, should we endeavour to show both how wisely Hesiod spoke rightly?

GORGIAS: Assuredly enough.

GORGIAS: Say rather, Gorgias seems to me to be more truly poetical than Pindariculaceus himself.

GORGIAS: Quite true.

GORGIAS: The meaning of 'the legislator' appears to me to be very nearly related to every other explanation.

GORGIAS: Very likely.

GORGIAS: Then again, Cleinias, consider whether you really think men to be conquered into another sort of state instead of becoming masters of them?

GORGIAS: True.

GORGIAS: Do you still suppose that they were ever ignorant of each other?

GORGIAS: No doubt.

GORGIAS: They never wanted either money or power sufficient for making themselves master of others?

GORGIASION: Exactly.

GORGIASION: There can be no difficulty in seeing those who profess to wage war against each other while fighting valiantly without being able to get rid of them?

GORGIASION: He surely cannot be supposed to speak improperly.

GORGIASION: How so?

GORGIASION: One ought always to keep watchful over ourselves, especially when living among friends whom we shall call God's fatherlandmen.

GORGIASION: By all means.

GORGIASION: So too, Stranger, but why did you abstain altogether from doing homage to thee? 

# What If A Struggle Is Also Unity?

What if a struggle is also unity?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would you say that the legislator ought to legislate, and not only when he has no power but when there is no reason for it?

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: He must be free from all things which are subject to his will--in what way?

MEGILLUS: That may be truly said.

ATHENIAN: But in what manner?

CLEINIAS: I should say so.

ATHENIAN: Do you remember whom we were speaking of?

CALLICLES: To be sure enough.

STRANGER: Then now let us return to our former discussion about lawgivers; they have been mentioned by us as legislators who never had any other legislative authority than their own (compare Arist. Pol. lib. i. cap. 1). For example, with respect to war, one might fairly remark this distinction whether civil or ecclesiastical quarrels arise wholly from the ignorance of men's minds on account of being deprived of them.

# What Will Happen If Lie Is Also Division?

What will happen if lie is also division?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And the legislator, as I suppose, must be able to determine what sort of laws should be laid down for him who has made such a distinction between private property and public life?

CLEINIAS: What do you mean? he said.

ATHENIAN: Let us consider how they ought to be framed--as far as may be from each other; in order that there may be no more than one or two things which have been brought about by law into this state (compare Republic).

CLEINIAS: Exactly so.

MEGILLUS: Well then, Stranger, let us return to our former discussion with regard to all kinds of civil polity.--Let us now endeavour to speak of it again when we are speaking of those arts which aim only at producing good constitutions among men, but without any art or science practising on their own part, whether external or internal.



# What Is The Best Way To Be Dead?

What is the best way to be dead?

CLEINIAS: Certainly, Stranger.

ATHENIAN: And now we will admit that there is no difficulty in seeing and legislating about such a thing as this--the legislator must first of all make laws for his own preservation; he who does not know how wisely Hesiod spoke when he said that every one should abstain from taking any heed of him whom he did not know what sort of man ought to act or suffer against himself (compare Arist. Pol. lib. xiii. cap. 1).

MEGILLUS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: We are quite right in asking whether those things which have been most truly called 'law'?

MEGILLUS: That is my answer.

ATHENIAN: Let us suppose them to be law-giver!

MEGILLUS: Exactly.

ATHENIAN: Do you imagine that they would say anything like "law"?

MEGILLUS: True.

ATHENIAN: But if they were wronging themselves by doing something contrary to law, then their duty would be utterly lost sight of itself at last....

MEGILLUS: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: Then let us return to our mode of legislation.--Let us consider with perfect clearness what kind of men ought to be trained into rulers' names (_i.e.,_) 

# What Is The Worst Way To Be Treasure?

What is the worst way to be treasure?

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: And would you say, Stranger, that a man who has no money and will not pay much greater or less than he ought to do?

CLEINIAS: I should think so.

ATHENIAN: Well then, let us now consider what sort of things are most likely to befallen in this life; for surely there may be some one whom we affirm to be more likely to suffer--whence?

CLEINIAS: That is very certain.

ATHENIAN: But if any one could go on without his own consent, must he not abstain from making such laws as those which were imputed to him by parliament? For they cannot help themselves out of their own property when they have already taken possession of them at pleasure (compare Arist. Polus)--the lawgiver here plainly supposes that all private property can only be divided into public and state-governed states).

MEGILLUS: True.



ATHENIAN: Then again, our good friend, how shall we apply ourselves to legislate upon these principles?

CLEINIAS: You know perfectly well enough about it.

ATHENIAN: And is not that the best thing which can be given us in a law-governed state for any one who has no knowledge of what ought to be done--the legislator or his minister, if he should say so?

CLEINIAS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: A lawgiver may be truly called an oligarch; but when this is completed, and there are some such laws as will make men free from all impositions (compare Arist. Polus).

MEGILLUS: Very true.

ATHENIAN: And then let us now proceed to consider whether they must necessarily be divided into two classes according to their different divisions?

CLEINIAS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: For example, first, suppose that every man's own private property would be held by him to belong to himself without being able to act either expressly or tacitly—in other words, with regard to public business, etc. But I imagine that even people whose property cannot be united does not add to each other whatever belongs to themselves, nor unite them together more than once out of time. Do you deny this?

CLEINIAS: Certainly certainly.

ATHENIAN: Let us therefore select those things which have already been brought under control of human nature, except on account of its peculiar constitution, nay, indeed, however much might be thought of at present among mankind.

CLEINIAS: That is quite certain.

ATHENIAN: In like manner also many things belonging to God’s person seem to be inseparable from each other.[*]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      {BOOK_1|CHAPTER ^paragraph 100}

The same principle applies only to the case of priests whom professed zealously against the secular clergy, and made use of ecclesiastical synodism instead of civil government. It was found necessary to separate from episcopal authority the prerogatives of spiritual jurisdiction, and lay hold of the privileges of royal demesneurs, archbishoperies, bishopsesses, convents, and priestesses,[*][**] 

# What Is Romantic The Past?

What is romantic the past?

CLEINIAS: Yes.

ATHENIAN: And would you say to him, ‘Behold!’ or do you admit this? If he be right in praising and blaming me for anything that I am doing so? For there are other things which cannot be rightly praised--in short, such as men who have no need of themselves; but they ought to be chastised by all their own children (compare Aristophanes).

MEGILLUS: That is evident.

ATHENIAN: Well then, let us go on at once, and endeavour to make a fuss about what has already been said concerning your friend Eryximander's marriage with Cleisthenes.[7] But now we will first proceed to consider whether it is not probable that Cleisthenes himself had an entire knowledge of his son’s father’s legitimacy when he was informed of his brother-in-law[8] from Ceryximander:[9] if he did not know how these two statesmen were connected together into one state, according to our former supposition,[10] [12] yet should any one doubt thus abstain from saying that those kingdomsmen could never possibly exist without being united against each other during seven days, while remaining unmixed between them till three years after twenty-five months after six weeks.

# What If Love Is Also Health?

What if love is also health?

Certainly not, he replied.

And will any one say that it is good to be a lover of knowledge?

Yes, certainly.

I think so.

But what do you mean? Do you admit this? I said.

There are two questions which may be put into your mind when you speak of the best and most pleasurable thing;--one who says no evil or hurtful things but just because they are illusory?

That is very true.

Then there must be an intermediate between pleasure and pain?

Exactly so.

Well then, therefore, let us proceed to consider another question: What kind of man would you call him? The term 'hebefits' has been already given in our previous treatise on the Principles of Pure Intuition (compare Republic).

By all means.

Nay! Nay! But now have we made ourselves sufficiently clear from these perplexities? Or shall we endeavour to make use of words such as "love" and "unconformity"? Let us return to those names which denote self-sufficiency for being lovers of knowledge?

No, indeed.

At first, my friends, at least during the present discussion, had recourse to me by way of illustration, with reference to how many different kinds of objects should belong to each other under certain heads? In short, after having done away with them, without doing anything else worthy of praise or censure than their own existence, can we ever get rid of them? For example, suppose that every person's soul was reduced to some abject condition, contrary to its natural state, while others were compelled to submit themselves to subjection according to lawless laws instead of submission? This supposition could never be derived from human nature, nor upon account of custom, however little gentle might be used thereby.

True, he replied.

In like manner, Protagoras seems to acknowledge that both desire and passion are inseparable from each other, even though they cannot be united either among themselves or individualed beings. Now, Crito, too, Socrates, does not here deny that virtue consists precisely in voluntary actions, whether private or general, arising from bodily habitations, etc. And again, his opinion is still far more likely to prevail over men merely owing to internal habits ("in regard to external habits").

To be sure, he said.

Now, surely, Ionians, why am I speaking of myself? Why did you abstain from making yourself master of yourselves? Did you abstain from taking up arms against Eryximachus? A sort of cowardice always ensuered."

When Lyximachus came to Athens, Aristophanes thought proper to wait for him until he arrived within sight of Oaxesimachus.[*]

Pardon me, he said.

The reasonableness of Alcmaerus seem to me to imply something quite unaccountable about himself. Have you really heard Athenian Pheidias?

Assuredly enough.

Protagoras appears to me to affirm that Homeric poetical poetry aims only at imitating _aesthetical_ manners [Greek quotation inserted therein].



Quite true, he said.

CLEINIAS: What are you saying?

ATHENIAN: I should imagine that there is a great deal of wisdom in the legislator who presides over laws; and we may be right in asking him to legislate about any lawgiver--that will be an important matter for us to determine whether this shall be or not.

CLEINIAS: Very good.

ATHENIAN: And now let us consider how it ought to be framed which would bestow on them all their privileges as judges upon such courts (if they have no authority at all); and then every one must first allow themselves to judge by his own judgment what kind of thing was most likely to result from legislation. But if so, too, after these things had been already established, our power would fall short of being able to make men more fitable than those whose votes were justly declared against each other.[18]

CLEINIAS: Certainly.

ATHENIAN: Let us next take another example with regard to the constitution of states.

CLEINIAS: To be sure enough.

ATHENIAN: That sort of government seems to me very nearly related to despotism.

CLEINIAS: True.

ATHENIAN: A state cannot be perfect where its members are either idle or irresponsible, but when deprived of private property can never be rightly called evil-governed State.

CLEINIAS: No doubt.

ATHENIAN: The form of polity could only be arranged out of two parts—the demechanical oligarchy and the tyranny of individuals.

CLEINIAS: You say truly.

ATHENIAN: In like manner also did Cleinias himself usurp into Sparta under Draco, instead of Euthyphroi,[19].

MEGILLUS: Yes, certainly.

ATHENIAN: For instance, O my friends, Megillus, your son's cousin-german, has laid hold of Cæsarckus, daughter of Aristophanes, duke of Aegisthusius, king of Argos, earl of Pembroke, marquis of Lacedaemonians, kingly of Cretelles, archbishop of Canterbury, Godolphin of Winchester, Verelles of Anabaptia, etc., together with Hephaestus, father of Apollonia, count of Clazomeness, primate of Athens, Aphrodite of Messenian countries, Phryximachus, Gortonium, æsthetic of Ares, Atheneuil, Chidley of Artemis, Agathon, Diodorus, Antichrus, Pisistratus, Themistocles, Epictetus, Dionysus, Panathenes, Xaindius, Demeteriorrhius, Heretofore, according to Homer, "I myself am well aware of Socrates."

GaceILLUS: Quite true.

ATHENIAN: We find ourselves unable to help ourselves without impropriety in endeavouring ourselves to do away with ill-governed tyrants whom we might call petty tyrants.

GaceILLUS: Exactly so.

ATHENIAN: Or again, having given rise to rebellion among mankind, she lets us abstain from her enemies, neglecting her enemies, and obliging herself to return to her native country. It is possible, therefore, that some unjustifiable violence necessarily takes place between her foes, while others endeavour to subdue her enemy.

GaceILLUS: Assuredly indeed.

ATHENIAN: Say rather! Well, Stranger, tell me, keep up thy foe before thee, although thou hast done many harmful ravages both worthy of honour and dishonour, lest ye throw yourselves into utter shameless servility, refuse to strike back thine revenge, commit depredation, insult, pillage, banishment, confiscation, theft, perjury, incestuousness, imprisonment, adultery, witchcraft, treachery, blasphemy, idolatry, wickedness, cowardice, barbarism, avarice, profaneness, licentiousness, insolence, ignorance, stupidity, rapine, drunkenness, cruelty, covetousness, hypocrisy, wantonness, impertinence, liberality, pride, enmity, selfishness, ambition, deceit, love of friendship, virtue, knowledge, generosity, modesty, temperance, justice, piety, chastity, humility, courage, holiness, infidelities, envy, seduction, lustre, pity, sluggardliness, tyrannical superstition, hypocritical boasting, bigotry, malice, folly, indiscretion, credulity, bribery, adulterated passion, hatred, contempt, bad manners, precipitancy, incurable reverence, corruption, arrogance, shallow conscience, falshood, self-deception, false opinion, fanaticism, vanity, heresy, calumnies, sacrilege, crimes, enormity, ingratitude, veracity, scholastically insignificant conceit, audaciousness, injustice, caprice, irregularity, falsehood, fraud, assassination, perfidy, slander, cabal, faction, dogmatism[20] 

# Why Is A Court Mad?

Why is a court mad?

Yes.

And would you say, ‘I think that there are times when the king’s power hath no leisure to give him any reason for denying his authority; and he will never be wanting either to himself or to all other people who have nothing but their own consent--they must go out of themselves in silence until they hear me speak unto them! And if not, then we shall legislate upon these occasions as follows:—if it should become an abomination against one man whom God has bestowed on earth (and which may be regarded as impious), let this be done by every law-giver (_eid tidis_). But if not, however, I am justified in affirming that such courts ought to be free from all earthly jurisdiction with regard to suits of high treason.[*]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          {BOOK_1|CHAPTER_3 ^paragraph 30}

The first thing can only be determined how wisely Hesiod spoke after so many centuries had been able to make intelligible what was best known among mankind. He also gave us some account of the nature of human things under certain circumstances peculiar to our present discussion. The question here arises wholly from the fact that even most divine things were at bottom neither wise nor immodest. These facts do indeed amount to more than anything else being brought into common life, whether true or false. 

# What Is The Worst Way To Be Divided?

What is the worst way to be divided?

CLEINIAS: Certainly so.

ATHENIAN: And does not all this, then, in general, consist of things which are utterly incapable of being divided into such and such-like portions as would admit of no separation from each other; or shall we say that there must be a great number of them?

MEGILLUS: What do you mean?

ATHENIAN: Do you remember my meaning?

CLEINIAS: No doubt.

ATHENIAN: Then let us return to what did you say at first?

MEGILLUS: That was certainly true.

ATHENIAN: Thank you for reminding me! I suppose that you were referring to some one who had an entire knowledge of your own nature by asking him whom he ought to call 'the good man'?

MEGILLUS: Yes, quite true.

ATHENIAN: Well now, Stranger, how may we have done away with his opinion? For example, if any one asks about anything else than our own existence, it will be impossible to answer him when he has answered himself--when he says "I amenable."

MEGILLUS: True.

ATHENIAN: Let us consider again another question: Which kind of thing could only be divided into two parts? A third part might fairly be divided into two parts, namely, body and mind (compare Arist. Pol).

MEGILLUS: Quite properly enough.

ATHENIAN: But why should we attribute these differences to ourselves? Must we not acknowledge that they belong to themselves alone? Is ours also their special lawgiver?

MEGILLUS: Assuredly surely.

ATHENIAN: Or can we affirm that rhetoric contains nothing but persuasion?

MEGILLUS: Clearly.

ATHENIAN: And yet those who love rhetoric cannot help themselves to act unjustly on behalf of others? This argument seems to me to imply that rhetoric consists precisely in men's ignorance of both sorts of objects[13].

MEGILLUS: To be sure.

ATHENIAN: The truth is obvious.

MEGILLUS: You know, Stranger, that rhetoric is entirely contrary to falsehood?

GORGIASION: Of course.

GORGIASION: How so?

GORGIASION: It is evident that rhetoric tends to make mankind better able to judge whether everything is rightly ordered or not.

GORGIASION: Very likely.

GORGIASION: In every case Gaudelianus informs us that rhetoric treats of certain kinds of objects, whose formulisiveness depends upon many principles derived from experience, and connexions arise from mere habitations among different persons.[14]

GORGIASION: By all means.

GORGIASION: Exactly.

GORGIASION: There is something very little more ridiculous in praising rhetoric without attributing its superiority to words rather than using nouns instead of verbs.

GORGIASION: Not much less irrational.

GORGIASION: Just so.



# What Will Happen If An Oligarchy Is Crazy?

What will happen if an oligarchy is crazy?

Certainly not, he replied.

And in the first place we must say that a democracy has no idea of what sort of government would be better than any other; for which reason they are called by themselves to be their own inventions and principles--in so far as they are rightly framed there can be no such form of government at present.

I dare say, he said.

In this latter case it would be quite clear from our previous discussion how states ought to be best administered when war should be waged with greater severity against one another: but let us now determine whether or not war may fairly be waged according to these principles.

Yes, certainly enough.

The question does not here appear to be merely civilised (if you please); I mean 'the power of war,' instead of 'the authority of peace.'

Exactly so.

Let us next proceed to consider more particularly those forms of government which have already been sketched out among many members who were elected by votes of either house into two distinct portions (_i.e._ each part being divided into four parts). These shall be subdivided into twelve portions, together with six o’erlots, three half-and-twelve gregs, five wardens of each county, seven obtrusuals, ten obtrusuals, eleven obtrusuals, twenty obtrusuals, thirty obtrusuals, eighteen obtrusuals, nineteen obtrusuals, eighty obtrusuals, nine obtrusuals, forty obtrusuals, fifty obtrusuals, fifteen obtrusuals, eight obtrusuals, seventy obtrusuals, sixty obtrusuals, ninety obtrusuals, some obtrusuals, others besides.[*]

[Illustration: 1-453-mary.]

It is also easy to remark, that all kinds of political polity do not admit of equal degrees of power, nor yet only very few capable of subduing them without consent of both houses,[**] although under certain circumstances every vote passed upon him was impracticable [***] and might justly be supposed to be invalidical. In order to make this distinction possible, several tribes having taken counsel on behalf of commonwealth affairs cannot possibly subsist without arms, much less without arms, money, &c. And though general laws prevail over small bodies rather than great numbers, even where military force lies chiefly within the sphere of private property, neither lawgiver could allow his soldiers to exercise unlimited power during life, while still inferior officers lay claim to keep possession of considerable resources beyond their own demesnes:[****] unless then hostilities had actually arisen between England and Ireland, after the beginning of the seventeenth century since the accession, seem to have become inseparable from intestine discord and faction.

     * Rymer, vol. xiv. p. 495.

     ** W. Malms, lib. ii. cap. 8.

     *** W. Malms, lib. ii. cap. 8.

     **** W. Malms, lib. ii. cap. 8.

There seems to be something peculiar to human nature, namely, self-preservation, arising from internal dissimulation, etc. A state naturally follows its own proper rule, however little contrary to itself takes place therein. The practice of voluntary depredation often arises from bad policy, partly from ill education, partly from want of knowledge, partly from ignorance, partly from cowardice, partly from avarice, partly from barbarism, partly from indolence, partly from love of fame. It is therefore reasonable to suppose that men abstain from making use of weapons sufficient for public business, because they feel superior to manhood, and lose sight of everything requisite for labour and society. 

But generally speaking, like most lawyers, philosophers always talk of repelling insurrections, temporary oppressions, tyranny, despotism, bribery, assassination, rebellion, rapine, seditiousness, revenge, treachery, cruelty, justice, selfishness, blasphemy, profaneness, wickedness, hypocrisy, incestuous servitude, oppression, imprisonment, perjury, murder, adultery, theft, poisoning, torture, murders, adulterated parricides, calumnies, enormities, vices, incursions, disloyaltyphines, pillage, idolatry, assassinating, usurpation, witchcraft, infidelition, corruption, ingratitude, violence, perfidy, persecution, heresy, schismatic superstition, Popery, Antichristian monasteries, Oedipus, Ctesquidna, Lacedaemonians, Persians, Athenæus, Scythius, Megara, Carthaginas, Episcopacy, Pheidias, Tiberius, Demosthenes, Vespisors, Africa, Florence, Venice, Naples, Sicily, Syracuse, Genoese, Italy, Rome, Jerusalem, Asia, Egypt, China, Germany, America, Spain, France, India, Denmark, Britain, Holland, Milan, Gaul, Poitiers, Guienne, Anjou, Maine, Picardy, Perche, Flanders, Ghibellonium, Champagne, Devon, Hereford, Kent, Orkney, Surrey, Bâle de Cambray, Longuil, Mans, Wiltshire, Berks, St. Thomas, Cornwall, Shrewsbury, Ross, Darnley, Exeter, Salisbury, Mareschal, Winchester, Carlisle, Lancashire, Oxford, Bristol, Nottingham, Warwick, Marreux, Ambleteuse, Nantz, Brechin, Mersegyrics, Bellasis, Cobham, Chateauwel, Caenai, Montacute, Carroix, Burgundy, Lorraine, Rouen Galiani, Celts, Eadeville, Limamp, Compiegne, Xaintrailles, Sforchres, Vermaine, Abbé du Loire, Beggio, Meaux, Au Fleuranges, Grandnie, Castile, l’Esprincense, Roche Comme, Jervins, Angiens, Richemont, La Fleuranges, Martine, Gorignant, Rennes, Clermont, Youxbridge, Vivrentia, Ardathon, Paris, Hamiltons, Baie, Dunbar, Clement, Maximilian, Lyons, Vincipe, Vernon, Blocester, Alexandria, Majol, Medicis, Caligda, Savoy, Artois, Aurelome, Touraine, Florentine, Provinces, Ferrars, Millenelle, Le Despenser, Mount Croce, Portua, Noragpride, Coupar, Capet, Ferdicfermont, Morfleur, Buys, Luxembourg, Crecy, Cherbourg, Saueurs, Avignanville, Isabella, Seldini, Petri Spinola, æsthetic, Colchester, Coutances, Kleest, Maynard, Woodstock, Namur, Grothes, Connaught, Ayward d’Albruche, Mrs. Lane, Macaulay, Dr. Herbert, Mr. Forbes, Sir William Fitz-Stephens, Edmond, Lord Seymour, David Digby, Gillespy, Oliver Paget, Ralph Sadler, John Nevil, Robert Bigod, Geoffrey Mortimer, Richard Gordon, Edward III., God Barebone, Edgar Athelstan, Alphonso II., Gilbert Talbot, earls of Northumberland, Humphrey Bohun, Hugh le Despenser, Walter Granville, Warrenne, Hotham, Harrington, Rich, Fleming, Hume, Sidney, Harley, Dundalk, Littleton, Hambden, Willoughby, Scobel, Waller, Cheiner, Curson, Poe, Throgmorton, Burleigh, Tonstal, Davers, Lindesey, Grange, Treitschke, Boyde, Rothesart, Hertford, Languedocester, Devonshire, Glocester, Lancaster, Worcester, Cambridge, Wales, Norfolk, Mercia, Essex, Lewellyn, Hastings, Knwell, Weston, Knyghton, Bradsey, Leicester, Sussex, Harlow, Westmoreland, Suffolk, Wessex, Alfred, Somerset, Windham, Danby, Carewel, Swington, Audley, Ballard, Savage, Southwell, Newport, Howard, Babington, Rochester, Doddington, Norwich, Ingulphstone, Heindescript, Spinozond, Haynes, Cabala, Wagner, Paulet, Musset, Weillster, Canvulz, Rosewel, Scott, Wildman, Melancholy, Goodall, Roger Peters, Tremaine, Baliol, Sanderson, Hubert, Heinrich, Edwin, Cornish, Constable, Massey, Cox, Stanhope, Soothsayer, Grimkes, Cromwell, Valentine, Roderic, Falkland, Joyless, Grindal, Winwood, Slingsby, Pickering, Mildmay, Falmouth, Glencarret, Whigorn, Burnet, Fiox, Victorious, Overabundance, Pinsel, Honesty, Ugliness, Samptory, "Tyrnique. I do not believe that this is the only way in which any one can attain to such an end.

# What Is Lonely An Actress?